most of our cells need oxygen because it 's one of the key ingredients of aerobic respiration . that 's the process that produces a molecule called atp , which our cells use to power their many incredible functions . but getting oxygen throughout our bodies is a surprisingly difficult task .	what is the process called that uses oxygen and results in the production of the atp we use as energy ?	what is the process called that uses oxygen and results in the production of the atp we use as energy ?
the truth is that many people are susceptible not only to the temptation to commit fraud but to convincing themselves that they 've done nothing wrong . so why does fraud happen ? while individual motivations may differ from case to case , the fraud triangle , a model developed by criminologist donald cressey , shows three conditions that make fraud likely : pressure , opportunity , and rationalization .	fraud is a $ _____ problem .	fraud is a $ _____ problem .
this is a kindergarten we designed in 2007 . we made this kindergarten to be a circle .	when takaharu tezuka designed the kindergarten in 2007 , why did he and his team choose a circular formation for the building ?	when takaharu tezuka designed the kindergarten in 2007 , why did he and his team choose a circular formation for the building ?
you 're swimming in the ocean when something brushes your leg . when the tingling sets in , you realize you 've been stung by a jellyfish . how do these beautiful , gelatinous creatures pack such a painful punch ?	describe the steps you should take after being stung by a jellyfish .	describe the steps you should take after being stung by a jellyfish .
you 're swimming in the ocean when something brushes your leg . when the tingling sets in , you realize you 've been stung by a jellyfish . how do these beautiful , gelatinous creatures pack such a painful punch ?	list what methods should be avoided after being stung by a jellyfish and why .	list what methods should be avoided after being stung by a jellyfish and why .
neurons are brain cells that have a nucleus , dendrites , and an axon . synapses are structures placed along the dendrites or the axon which allow the exchange of electrochemical signals between neurons . those signals take the form of chemicals called neurotransmitters .	complete the sentence : “ synapses are structures ________ , and allow the exchange of electrochemical signals between neurons .	complete the sentence : “ synapses are structures ________ , and allow the exchange of electrochemical signals between neurons .
have you ever been just about to go to sleep , walking through the gates to dreamland , only to have the floor pulled out from under you and you ’ re suddenly falling and then you wake up ! this frustrating sleep starts have another cool medical name , hypnagogic myoclonus . when we drift off , the areas of our brain that control motor function are inactivated in favor of those that control our sleep cycles , which is why you can dream about riding your bike without actually moving your feet .	which two functions may be battling it out during sleep start , or 'hypnagogic myoclonus ' ?	which two functions may be battling it out during sleep start , or 'hypnagogic myoclonus ' ?
what would happen if the other bacteria moved in , too ? now the cells of this species started becoming highly complex . they were big and full of intricate structures that we call chloroplasts and mitochondria .	what types of biological abilities can be combined to create more capable , more complex cells ?	what types of biological abilities can be combined to create more capable , more complex cells ?
brown recluse spiders are venomous . lionfish and pufferfish are poisonous . and some compounds can be poisons in one animal and venoms in another .	when a poisonous rattlesnake bites you , it ________ .	when a poisonous rattlesnake bites you , it ________ .
but should they ? some argue that overbooking is unethical . you 're charging two people for the same resource .	overbooking is :	overbooking is :
but should they ? some argue that overbooking is unethical . you 're charging two people for the same resource .	what types of motivation , besides profit maximization , could be at play when overbooking a flight ?	what types of motivation , besides profit maximization , could be at play when overbooking a flight ?
remember that all reactions need energy to get going . this energy is known as the activation energy . enzymes lower that activation energy and speed the reaction through team mods : microenvironment , orientation , direct participation , and straining bonds .	what is activation energy ?	what is activation energy ?
but for objects or ships to float when they 're made of materials , like steel , that are denser than water , they must displace a volume of water larger than their weight . normally , the water filling a ship 's hull would increase its weight and cause it to sink - just what the `` mary celeste 's '' crew feared when they abandoned ship . but the sailors did n't account for fluid dynamics .	the `` mary celeste '' became a ghost ship due to :	the `` mary celeste '' became a ghost ship due to :
but for objects or ships to float when they 're made of materials , like steel , that are denser than water , they must displace a volume of water larger than their weight . normally , the water filling a ship 's hull would increase its weight and cause it to sink - just what the `` mary celeste 's '' crew feared when they abandoned ship . but the sailors did n't account for fluid dynamics .	what kind of events could occur at sea and on board a ship that would cause a crew to abandon it ?	what kind of events could occur at sea and on board a ship that would cause a crew to abandon it ?
in the 19th century , long after newton died , scientists did a series of experiments that clearly showed that light ca n't be made up of tiny , atom-like particles . for one thing , two beams of light that cross paths do n't interact with each other at all . if light were made of tiny , solid balls , then you would expect that some of the particles from beam a would crash into some of the particles from beam b .	draw a diagram showing why , when two beams of light cross paths , they do not interact or crash together at all . try with two laser beams and chalk dust .	draw a diagram showing why , when two beams of light cross paths , they do not interact or crash together at all . try with two laser beams and chalk dust .
your body often repairs damage from small amounts ionizing radiation , and if it ca n't , the results of damage may not manifest for a decade or more . one way scientists compare ionizing radiation exposure is a unit called the sievert . an acute exposure to one sievert will probably cause nausea within hours , and four sieverts could be fatal .	which of the following would not significantly reduce our exposure to ionizing radiation ?	which of the following would not significantly reduce our exposure to ionizing radiation ?
his emancipation proclamation was n't a law , or a presidential decree . it was an executive order . the framers of the american constitution made the power of executive order available to the executive branch . but what exactly is this tool ?	the framers made executive orders available to :	the framers made executive orders available to :
these super energetic collisions are so rare that icecube 's scientists give each neutrino nicknames , like big bird and dr. strangepork . icecube has already observed the highest energy cosmic neutrinos ever seen . the neutrinos it detects should finally tell us where cosmic rays come from and how they reached such extreme energies . light , from infrared , to x-rays , to gamma rays , has given us increasingly energetic and continuously surprising views of the universe .	what can cosmic neutrinos tell us about the universe ?	what can cosmic neutrinos tell us about the universe ?
these super energetic collisions are so rare that icecube 's scientists give each neutrino nicknames , like big bird and dr. strangepork . icecube has already observed the highest energy cosmic neutrinos ever seen . the neutrinos it detects should finally tell us where cosmic rays come from and how they reached such extreme energies . light , from infrared , to x-rays , to gamma rays , has given us increasingly energetic and continuously surprising views of the universe .	cosmic rays are thought to be produced in the same environments as cosmic neutrinos . why ca n't cosmic rays tell us about their origin ?	cosmic rays are thought to be produced in the same environments as cosmic neutrinos . why ca n't cosmic rays tell us about their origin ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar i like to think of life science as one big pyramid . let 's call the pyramid , `` biological organization '' .	which of the following are in the correct order ?	which of the following are in the correct order ?
however , that journey is neither simple nor direct . upon being born , each photon travels at a speed of 300,000 kilometers per second until it collides with a proton and is diverted in another direction , acting like a bullet ricocheting off of every charged particle it strikes . the question of how far this photon gets from the center of the sun after each collision is known as the random walk problem .	what do fast moving photons collide with to get diverted in another direction ?	what do fast moving photons collide with to get diverted in another direction ?
this meant it could n't be a star at all . it was something new , the first asteroid ever discovered , which piazzi eventually named ceres . asteroids are bits of rock and metal that orbit the sun .	in 1801 , piazzi stopped tracking ceres because :	in 1801 , piazzi stopped tracking ceres because :
and each glowing dot of a galaxy captured in the deep field image contains billions of stars at the very least . almost a decade after taking the deep field image , scientists adjusted the optics on the hubble telescope and took another long exposure over a period of about four months . this time , they observed 10,000 galaxies .	how many months did hubble spend gathering the images ( exposures ) used to create the hubble deep field image ?	how many months did hubble spend gathering the images ( exposures ) used to create the hubble deep field image ?
there are more and more adenosine receptors to block . it 's also why if you suddenly quit caffeine , you may experience an unpleasant withdrawal . with plenty of receptors and no competition , adenosine can work overtime , causing symptoms like headaches , tiredness , and depressed moods .	if someone reduces caffeine consumption slowly , withdrawal symptoms won ’ t be evident . however , when someone stops caffeine use abruptly , they may experience headache , tiredness , and bad mood . why ?	if someone reduces caffeine consumption slowly , withdrawal symptoms won ’ t be evident . however , when someone stops caffeine use abruptly , they may experience headache , tiredness , and bad mood . why ?
it 's had tacks in it , and splinters , and boards torn up , and places with no carpet on the floor . '' langston hughes is making a metaphor that compares a hard life to a wrecked house you still have to live in . those splinters and tacks feel real , they hurt your own feet and your own heart , but the mother is describing her life here , not her actual house .	langston hughes ’ s poem “ mother to son ” uses a house as a metaphor for a hard life . if you had to describe your own life right now with a metaphor , what object would you compare your life to ? ( you can use a simile if that ’ s easier , and write the phrase “ my life feels like a _______ ” as a way to get started . ) once you ’ ve picked the object , describe the object for a few sentences . ( what you ’ re doing here is making up and exploring a new extended metaphor of your own . )	langston hughes ’ s poem “ mother to son ” uses a house as a metaphor for a hard life . if you had to describe your own life right now with a metaphor , what object would you compare your life to ? ( you can use a simile if that ’ s easier , and write the phrase “ my life feels like a _______ ” as a way to get started . ) once you ’ ve picked the object , describe the object for a few sentences . ( what you ’ re doing here is making up and exploring a new extended metaphor of your own . )
many of us love cartoons , most of us grew up reading them or having them read to us . the fact is , cartoons have been around a long time . there are all kinds of cartoons : strip comics , comic books , political cartoons , single-panel cartoons , graphic novels , web comics , animation , caricature , there is something for everyone . no matter the form them come in , cartoons elicit all kinds of emotions from the viewer - happiness , sadness , anger , hilarity , calm - and can transmit ideas in an instant .	donnelly says that cartoons start with a ( n ) ___________ ?	donnelly says that cartoons start with a ( n ) ___________ ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar pretty much everyone loves eating pizza , but it can be a messy business . pizza is soft and bendable . so how can you stop all that cheese from falling off ?	chances are you ’ ve never cut a ping-pong ball into pieces . but , if you do , you can see immediately that the thin plastic they ’ re made from is soft and flexible . this is a bit surprising , since ping-pong balls themselves are hard and rigid . thinking about the pizza example , can you explain why this might be ?	chances are you ’ ve never cut a ping-pong ball into pieces . but , if you do , you can see immediately that the thin plastic they ’ re made from is soft and flexible . this is a bit surprising , since ping-pong balls themselves are hard and rigid . thinking about the pizza example , can you explain why this might be ?
what is it that makes these fish worthy of our ancient legends and so successful in the seas ? much of their hunting prowess stems from a unique set of biological traits honed for more than 400 million years . their cartilaginous skeletons are less dense than bony ones and require less energy to move .	which set of traits is not found in sharks ?	which set of traits is not found in sharks ?
instead of seizing power himself , the elder brutus led the people in a rousing oath to never again allow a king to rule . rome became a republic based on the principle that no one man should hold too much power . now , four and a half centuries later , this principle was threatened .	what was the fundamental principle of the roman republic ?	what was the fundamental principle of the roman republic ?
much of the answer lies with the skill and training of interpreters to overcome language barriers . for most of history , interpretation was mainly done consecutively , with speakers and interpreters making pauses to allow each other to speak . but after the advent of radio technology , a new simultaneous interpretations system was developed in the wake of world war ii .	for most of history , interpretation was done consecutively rather than simultaneously . what are the differences between these two methods of interpreting ?	for most of history , interpretation was done consecutively rather than simultaneously . what are the differences between these two methods of interpreting ?
there is some paper on the top . manganese is also important in old batteries , the older batteries that you used in torches , the sort that leaked , contained manganese dioxide . so here we have the manganese and we are going to pour a small amount out so that we can have a look at this element .	what is the manganese compound used as the cathode ( electron acceptor ) in alkaline batteries ?	what is the manganese compound used as the cathode ( electron acceptor ) in alkaline batteries ?
these all may be slightly different `` you 's . '' in many languages , the pronoun reflects these differences through what 's known as the t–v distinction . in french , for example , you would say `` tu '' when talking to your friend at school , but `` vous '' when addressing your teacher .	what is the t-v distinction ?	what is the t-v distinction ?
without the right tools , many sailors would be reluctant to sail too far from the sight of land . john bird , an instrument maker in london , made the first device that could measure the angle between the sun and the horizon during the day , called a sextant . knowing this angle was important , because it could be compared to the angle back in england at the exact same time .	who invented the first device that could measure the distance between the sun and the horizon during the day ?	who invented the first device that could measure the distance between the sun and the horizon during the day ?
and these six measurements , like six points of light , reveal the history of the universe . the first person to study the light from distant galaxies was edwin hubble , and the light he observed was redshifted . the distant galaxies were all moving away from us , and the further away the were , the faster they were receding .	what did edwin hubble notice about the light from distant galaxies ?	what did edwin hubble notice about the light from distant galaxies ?
however , unbeknownst to betsy , xander has been romancing her sister , angelica , with love letters and secret rendezvous for the duration of their relationship . if betsy found out , it would destroy her relationships with both xander and angelica , and the experience would be so traumatic , she would never love again . since betsy is in blissful ignorance about xander 's infidelity , hedonists would say she 's better off remaining in the dark and maintaining her high level of net pleasure .	plugging into the experience machine would provide users with :	plugging into the experience machine would provide users with :
however , unbeknownst to betsy , xander has been romancing her sister , angelica , with love letters and secret rendezvous for the duration of their relationship . if betsy found out , it would destroy her relationships with both xander and angelica , and the experience would be so traumatic , she would never love again . since betsy is in blissful ignorance about xander 's infidelity , hedonists would say she 's better off remaining in the dark and maintaining her high level of net pleasure .	life inside the experience machine would feel like :	life inside the experience machine would feel like :
it 's cheaper in many cases , and definitely more sustainable than our dependance on traditional power plants that use resources like coal , which will eventually run out . so why do n't we replace these traditional plants with solar energy ? because there 's one factor that makes solar power very unpredictable : cloud cover . as the sun 's rays move towards earth , some get absorbed by the earth 's atmosphere , some are reflected back into outer space , but the rest make it to the earth 's surface .	which one the countries below has the highest solar irradiance potential ?	which one the countries below has the highest solar irradiance potential ?
before we discuss all five of these processes , we should define evolution . evolution is simply change in the gene pool over time . but what is a gene pool ?	genetic drift is a change in the gene pool due to chance . genetic drift increases as the population decreases . what accounts for this relationship ?	genetic drift is a change in the gene pool due to chance . genetic drift increases as the population decreases . what accounts for this relationship ?
sure , timmy , we can see how much you 'll have in five years . let 's connect future value and present value across five years . let 's watch the period increase from two to five .	we ’ ve learned to connect present value of an investment with its future value , based on an investment period and an interest rate . how would you calculate the present value of an investment if you know its future value , its investment period and interest rate ?	we ’ ve learned to connect present value of an investment with its future value , based on an investment period and an interest rate . how would you calculate the present value of an investment if you know its future value , its investment period and interest rate ?
sure , timmy , we can see how much you 'll have in five years . let 's connect future value and present value across five years . let 's watch the period increase from two to five .	could you extrapolate the concepts of investments , present value , future value and interest rates into other financial concepts like expected sales given present sales numbers , growth rate and number of years ?	could you extrapolate the concepts of investments , present value , future value and interest rates into other financial concepts like expected sales given present sales numbers , growth rate and number of years ?
sure , timmy , we can see how much you 'll have in five years . let 's connect future value and present value across five years . let 's watch the period increase from two to five .	could you , using the concepts we learned linking present value and future value , determine the implied interest rate needed to make a value of $ 10,000 today ( present value ) , equal $ 11,000 ( future value ) , one year from now ?	could you , using the concepts we learned linking present value and future value , determine the implied interest rate needed to make a value of $ 10,000 today ( present value ) , equal $ 11,000 ( future value ) , one year from now ?
here the ocean 's currents have trapped millions of pieces of plastic debris . this is one of five plastic-filled gyres in the world 's seas . places where the pollutants turn the water into a cloudy plastic soup .	what 's one way we can reduce plastic 's impact on the environment ?	what 's one way we can reduce plastic 's impact on the environment ?
so when one duke bragged that his subjects were so upright that a son testified against his own father when his father stole a sheep , confucius informed the duke that genuinely upright fathers and sons protected one another . during his travels , confucius almost starved , he was briefly imprisoned , and his life was threatened at several points . but he was not bitter .	what best describes the political situation in china during the life of confucius ?	what best describes the political situation in china during the life of confucius ?
when it 's far from shore , a tsunami can be barely detectable since it moves through the entire depth of the water . but when it reaches shallow water , something called wave shoaling occurs . because there is less water to move through , this still massive amount of energy is compressed .	what exactly is a wave ?	what exactly is a wave ?
when it 's far from shore , a tsunami can be barely detectable since it moves through the entire depth of the water . but when it reaches shallow water , something called wave shoaling occurs . because there is less water to move through , this still massive amount of energy is compressed .	which of the following occur during wave shoaling ( choose all that apply ) ?	which of the following occur during wave shoaling ( choose all that apply ) ?
when it 's far from shore , a tsunami can be barely detectable since it moves through the entire depth of the water . but when it reaches shallow water , something called wave shoaling occurs . because there is less water to move through , this still massive amount of energy is compressed .	describe the process of wave shoaling and why you can ’ t see tsunamis far from shore .	describe the process of wave shoaling and why you can ’ t see tsunamis far from shore .
but then disaster struck . from 1845 to 1852 , potato blight disease ravaged the majority of ireland 's potato crop , leading to the irish potato famine , one of the deadliest famines in world history . over a million irish citizens starved to death , and 2 million more left their homes behind .	the irish potato famine occurred between _______ .	the irish potato famine occurred between _______ .
but then disaster struck . from 1845 to 1852 , potato blight disease ravaged the majority of ireland 's potato crop , leading to the irish potato famine , one of the deadliest famines in world history . over a million irish citizens starved to death , and 2 million more left their homes behind .	which country brought the potato to europe ?	which country brought the potato to europe ?
this is standard full speed . so , the point at which we lose awareness of the intervals and begin to see apparent motion seems to kick in at around eight to 12 frames per second . this is in the neighborhood of what science has determined to be the general threshold of our awareness of seeing separate images .	so , the point at which we lose awareness of the intervals and begin to see apparent motion seems to kick in at around ________ frames per second .	so , the point at which we lose awareness of the intervals and begin to see apparent motion seems to kick in at around ________ frames per second .
ok. now we sort of have an idea how large the mole is . so how do we use it ? you might be surprised to know that chemists use it the same way you use pounds to buy grapes , deli meat , or eggs . when you go to the grocery store , you do n't go to the deli counter and ask for 43 slices of salami , you buy your salami by the pound .	can you give an example of a way that you use moles in your everyday life ? if you ca n't think of one , can you create an instance where using the mole might be a benefit for you ?	can you give an example of a way that you use moles in your everyday life ? if you ca n't think of one , can you create an instance where using the mole might be a benefit for you ?
now it 's not a lone nut , it 's not two nuts -- three is a crowd , and a crowd is news . so a movement must be public . it 's important to show not just the leader , but the followers , because you find that new followers emulate the followers , not the leader .	movements must be ________ ?	movements must be ________ ?
the wall stabilized east germany 's economy by preventing its work force from leaving , but tarnished its reputation , becoming a global symbol of communist repression . as part of reconciliation with the east , the basic treaty of 1972 recognized east germany pragmatically while west germany retained its hope for eventual reunification . although the eastern regime gradually allowed family visits , it tried to discourage people from exercising these rights with an arduous bureaucratic process and high fees .	the east germans wanted to leave :	the east germans wanted to leave :
stars are mostly made up of hydrogen , the simplest and lightest element . the enormous gravitational pressure of so much material compresses and triggers nuclear fusion in the star 's core . this process releases energy from the hydrogen , making the star shine . over many millions of years , fusion transforms hydrogen into heavier elements : helium , carbon , and oxygen , burning subsequent elements faster and faster to reach iron and nickel .	how would you go about trying to find a star that is just about to explode ?	how would you go about trying to find a star that is just about to explode ?
aristotle famously said , `` nature fears of empty space '' when he claimed that a true vacuum , a space devoid of matter , could not exist because the surrounding matter would immediately fill it . fortunately , he turned out to be wrong .	who said , `` nature fears of empty space '' ?	who said , `` nature fears of empty space '' ?
♪ a treasure trove of planets found astronomers are celebrating a new discovery . sean carey , manager , spitzer science center , caltech ipac the big news is that around a very nearby cold , small star we found seven rocky , earth-sized planets , all of which could potentially have liquid water . three of them orbit in the habitable zone around the star .	how many rocky , earth-sized planets did the spitzer space telescope find around a nearby star ?	how many rocky , earth-sized planets did the spitzer space telescope find around a nearby star ?
so , bears tightly follow the schedule of the plants and harvest them like crops at the point in time when they are at the most nutritious . this will happen in different places at different times . in autumn , a large male grizzly can eat up to 200,000 berries in a single day .	how do satellites identify different plant species on the ground ?	how do satellites identify different plant species on the ground ?
that 's called a proof by contradiction , and according to the legend , the gods did not appreciate being contradicted . interestingly , even though we ca n't express irrational numbers as ratios of integers , it is possible to precisely plot some of them on the number line . take root 2 .	how can we plot √17 on the number line ?	how can we plot √17 on the number line ?
that 's called a proof by contradiction , and according to the legend , the gods did not appreciate being contradicted . interestingly , even though we ca n't express irrational numbers as ratios of integers , it is possible to precisely plot some of them on the number line . take root 2 .	square roots of non-perfect squares ( which are irrational numbers ) can be plotted on a number line . but can pi be plotted on a number line ?	square roots of non-perfect squares ( which are irrational numbers ) can be plotted on a number line . but can pi be plotted on a number line ?
this really is their story ; i 'm just the messenger . the really big job was taking all the interviews and analyzing them , word by word , line by line , and sorting them into all the factors that people said helped them succeed . and then you start to see the big factors that are common to most people 's success . altogether , i analyzed and sorted millions of words .	interviewing people was relatively quick . what was the big job that took me years to do ?	interviewing people was relatively quick . what was the big job that took me years to do ?
do you remember when you first realized that your computer was more than just a monitor and keyboard ? that between the mouse click and the video playing , there was something that captured your intention , understood it , and made it real ?	bios stands for	bios stands for
on the screen , alfred hitchcock 's cinematography is known for its use of extended silences and shots of staircases to create a feeling of discomfort . four : use dramatic irony . you ca n't just keep the audience in the dark forever .	‘ dramatic irony ’ means…	‘ dramatic irony ’ means…
all that 's left is for that one lion to raft back and bring his fellow lions over one by one . that makes eleven trips total , the smallest number needed to get everyone across safely . the solution that involves sending both lions on the first step works similarly , and also takes eleven crossings . the six animals escape unharmed from the fire just in time and begin their new lives across the river .	what is another solution that leads to the same number of efficient crossings ?	what is another solution that leads to the same number of efficient crossings ?
in 1978 , louise brown became the world 's first baby to be born by in vitro fertilization , or ivf . her birth revolutionized the field of reproductive medicine .	aside from couples with infertility , who else could benefit from in vitro fertilization ?	aside from couples with infertility , who else could benefit from in vitro fertilization ?
in 1978 , louise brown became the world 's first baby to be born by in vitro fertilization , or ivf . her birth revolutionized the field of reproductive medicine .	although many patients want twins , a common phenomenon with in vitro fertilization , why has there been a push to try to reduce the number of twins born from ivf ?	although many patients want twins , a common phenomenon with in vitro fertilization , why has there been a push to try to reduce the number of twins born from ivf ?
ok , so europium is pretty much in the middle of the lanthanide series . perhaps its most famous use is in television screens . in fact , most or many of the rare earths can fluoresce in this way and give out light , but europium is particularly good at giving a very nice red colour , and so europium salts are used in television screens , not lcd screens like you have on the laptop , but the old-fashioned cathode ray televisions . so it ’ s very good at phosphorescence , for example , so we use it in the tubes in tv screens to get different colours .	it used to be found in old tvs but , which common energy-saving devices use europium nowadays ?	it used to be found in old tvs but , which common energy-saving devices use europium nowadays ?
one of these genes is brca1 , which stands for breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 . brca1 belongs to a class of genes called tumor suppressor genes . tumor suppressor genes are involved in regulating how fast a cell divides .	brca1 belongs to a class of genes called _________ .	brca1 belongs to a class of genes called _________ .
so nickel is a metal which can produce allergies in some people , people get allergic to nickel . and it ’ s a metal which is found in canada and sir ludwig mond founder of the company that later becomes ici discovered a process for extracting nickel from the ore using carbon monoxide and started a huge factory on the south coast of wales . and the so-called nickel carbonyl was really quite an important industrial compound even though it was fantastically toxic . and it ’ s unusual as a metal compound because it boils at room temperature and usually one thinks of metal compounds as salts .	what is the compound used to extract nickel from the ore in the process developed by ludwig mond ?	what is the compound used to extract nickel from the ore in the process developed by ludwig mond ?
according to one ford designer , aerodynamic design was a much more affordable way to boost efficiency than doing engineering work under the hood . the rise of computer modelling in the 80s also made it easier for car makers to design and manufacture curved lines . all these years later , the influence on today ’ s cars is pretty clear .	how did advances in computer modeling affect car designs ?	how did advances in computer modeling affect car designs ?
ultimately voting to place it in front of the palazzo della signoria , the town hall and home of the new republican government . this new location transformed the statue 's meaning . the medici family , who for generations had ruled the city through their control of banking , had recently been exiled , and florence now saw itself as a free city , threatened on all sides by wealthy and powerful rivals .	the intended original location for michelangelo ’ s statue of david was ________ .	the intended original location for michelangelo ’ s statue of david was ________ .
ultimately voting to place it in front of the palazzo della signoria , the town hall and home of the new republican government . this new location transformed the statue 's meaning . the medici family , who for generations had ruled the city through their control of banking , had recently been exiled , and florence now saw itself as a free city , threatened on all sides by wealthy and powerful rivals .	where is the original statue right now ?	where is the original statue right now ?
ultimately voting to place it in front of the palazzo della signoria , the town hall and home of the new republican government . this new location transformed the statue 's meaning . the medici family , who for generations had ruled the city through their control of banking , had recently been exiled , and florence now saw itself as a free city , threatened on all sides by wealthy and powerful rivals .	this video explains how location gives meaning . can understanding the time period be as important ? how can understanding the time period also contribute to our understanding of art ?	this video explains how location gives meaning . can understanding the time period be as important ? how can understanding the time period also contribute to our understanding of art ?
ultimately voting to place it in front of the palazzo della signoria , the town hall and home of the new republican government . this new location transformed the statue 's meaning . the medici family , who for generations had ruled the city through their control of banking , had recently been exiled , and florence now saw itself as a free city , threatened on all sides by wealthy and powerful rivals .	can you think of any other artistic pieces that change meaning as they change location ? what about duchamp ’ s fountain or picasso ’ s guernica ? what significance is added by the original locations ?	can you think of any other artistic pieces that change meaning as they change location ? what about duchamp ’ s fountain or picasso ’ s guernica ? what significance is added by the original locations ?
ultimately voting to place it in front of the palazzo della signoria , the town hall and home of the new republican government . this new location transformed the statue 's meaning . the medici family , who for generations had ruled the city through their control of banking , had recently been exiled , and florence now saw itself as a free city , threatened on all sides by wealthy and powerful rivals .	what meaning would michelangelo ’ s statue of david have if it appeared outside of your favorite sports team ’ s arena ?	what meaning would michelangelo ’ s statue of david have if it appeared outside of your favorite sports team ’ s arena ?
`` baghdad was unfortunate , but its kalif refused to surrender , and hulagu was later punished by berke khan for the wanton destruction . it was n't mongol policy to destroy culture . usually they saved doctors , scholars and artisans from conquered places , and transferred them throughout their realm , spreading knowledge across the world . ''	which was not a feature of the mongol empire ?	which was not a feature of the mongol empire ?
so , it just slightly changes their position or rustles them up a little bit so that would cycle over and over . and those would play on what animators call threes . and threes means that each picture is on screen for three frames at twenty-four frames per second .	explain what is meant by `` threes . ''	explain what is meant by `` threes . ''
[ go project films ] i think that facing death changes people ... which is what happened with me . before this experience , i was a completely different person with a completely different dream .	what do you find most compelling about mohammed 's story ? do you think his story , told through the medium of a short documentary film , might provide an important way for people to learn about the syrian conflict from a humanistic perspective ? why or why not ?	what do you find most compelling about mohammed 's story ? do you think his story , told through the medium of a short documentary film , might provide an important way for people to learn about the syrian conflict from a humanistic perspective ? why or why not ?
it 's been featured in uncounted films and television commercials , but what is it and why does it sound that way ? this is the opening of `` spring '' from `` the four seasons , '' by italian composer antonio vivaldi . `` the four seasons '' are famous in part because they are a delight to the ear . however , even more notable is the fact that they have stories to tell .	what is the featured solo instrument in the four seasons concertos ?	what is the featured solo instrument in the four seasons concertos ?
`` vanilla flavoring is the secret to my aunt 's pudding . i kick out a few raisins but leave one or two . life needs some bitter to man up the sweet . ''	which one of the steps is repeated ?	which one of the steps is repeated ?
and in summer , it 's almost manic hunting and working activity very long hours , very active . so , what would our natural rhythm look like ? what would our sleeping patterns be in the sort of ideal sense ?	describe the natural sleep patterns that were discovered in this study .	describe the natural sleep patterns that were discovered in this study .
why do cats do that ? they 're cute , they 're lovable , and judging by the 26 billions views of over 2 million youtube videos of them pouncing , bouncing , climbing , cramming , stalking , clawing , chattering , and purring , one thing is certain : cats are very entertaining .	cats need to scratch , and we need them not to scratch our things . how can we meet both needs ?	cats need to scratch , and we need them not to scratch our things . how can we meet both needs ?
why do cats do that ? they 're cute , they 're lovable , and judging by the 26 billions views of over 2 million youtube videos of them pouncing , bouncing , climbing , cramming , stalking , clawing , chattering , and purring , one thing is certain : cats are very entertaining .	in what ways does the social structure of cats different from that of dogs ?	in what ways does the social structure of cats different from that of dogs ?
why do cats do that ? they 're cute , they 're lovable , and judging by the 26 billions views of over 2 million youtube videos of them pouncing , bouncing , climbing , cramming , stalking , clawing , chattering , and purring , one thing is certain : cats are very entertaining .	as hunters , cats :	as hunters , cats :
what could octopuses possibly have in common with us ? after all , they do n't have lungs , spines , or even a plural noun we can all agree on .	which of the following sentences is correct ?	which of the following sentences is correct ?
what could octopuses possibly have in common with us ? after all , they do n't have lungs , spines , or even a plural noun we can all agree on .	which of the following sentences is incorrect ?	which of the following sentences is incorrect ?
what could octopuses possibly have in common with us ? after all , they do n't have lungs , spines , or even a plural noun we can all agree on .	octopuses are capable of incredible deeds . which of the following is not one of them ?	octopuses are capable of incredible deeds . which of the following is not one of them ?
what could octopuses possibly have in common with us ? after all , they do n't have lungs , spines , or even a plural noun we can all agree on .	besides octopuses , what other intelligent animals can you name ? how can you tell they are smart ? what attributes do they share with octopuses ?	besides octopuses , what other intelligent animals can you name ? how can you tell they are smart ? what attributes do they share with octopuses ?
most of us think of the sun as our friend . it helps plants grow , keeps us warm , and who does n't love to lie on the beach on a sunny day ?	people with darker skin produce more pigment that offers them additional protection against the sun . this appears to have a relationship to geography and evolution . why do you think this might be ?	people with darker skin produce more pigment that offers them additional protection against the sun . this appears to have a relationship to geography and evolution . why do you think this might be ?
many ancient religions described other worlds inhabited by known human beings , but these are more like mythical realms or parallel universes than other planets existing in the same physical world . it is only within the last century that scientists have been able to seriously undertake the search for extraterrestrial life . we know that at the most basic level organisms on earth need three things : liquid water , a source of energy , and organic , carbon-based material .	astrobiology is the search for _____ in the universe .	astrobiology is the search for _____ in the universe .
so , if you see a big pile of zombie supplies where there was n't one before , you 're probably on the trail . ideas also move . ideas can include entertainment , zombie movies , news and information about zombie attacks , and architecture , or how to build a safe shelter .	what are some examples of ideas that move ?	what are some examples of ideas that move ?
before you hit the keys , go back to the text and fish out the small moments , the complicated moments in the story . line them up in your mind , practice insight , acknowledge complexity , arrive at some big ideas . before you know it , the deeper meaning will be close at hand .	what is insight ?	what is insight ?
before you hit the keys , go back to the text and fish out the small moments , the complicated moments in the story . line them up in your mind , practice insight , acknowledge complexity , arrive at some big ideas . before you know it , the deeper meaning will be close at hand .	considering your answers to question one and two , what might be some of these big ideas ( otherwise known as abstract concepts or thematic ideas ) in the text that you would want to address in an essay ? explain how you arrived at these ideas based off of your own insight and acknowledgement of the text ’ s complexity .	considering your answers to question one and two , what might be some of these big ideas ( otherwise known as abstract concepts or thematic ideas ) in the text that you would want to address in an essay ? explain how you arrived at these ideas based off of your own insight and acknowledgement of the text ’ s complexity .
governments and non-profits are also susceptible to fraud . during her time as city comptroller for dixon , illinois , rita crundwell embezzled over 53 million dollars . rita was one of the country 's leading quarter horse breeders and winner of 52 world championships .	rita crundwell embezzled $ ______ from the city of dixon .	rita crundwell embezzled $ ______ from the city of dixon .
we learned a lot of things about the social awkwardness of it and some of the ergonomic aspects of it that you could n't have figured out ahead of just thinking about it . and , ergo the second prototyping rule , which is `` doing is the best kind of thinking . '' they teach you to think a lot in school , but i think it is a little bit overrated .	what is chi 's second prototyping rule ?	what is chi 's second prototyping rule ?
hafnium is , i think , an element to watch . at the moment , it does not have many uses but there is a strong opinion that hafnium is going to be used in making layers on computer chips like this , and that hafnium oxide will have better properties than some of the other oxides that are used . so i think that hafnium is certainly something that ’ s way up on the charts and soon may be much higher than its existing number on the periodic table - in the elements popularity .	what was the application the professor predicted for hafnium in the future , which is in the form of hafnium oxide ?	what was the application the professor predicted for hafnium in the future , which is in the form of hafnium oxide ?
hafnium is , i think , an element to watch . at the moment , it does not have many uses but there is a strong opinion that hafnium is going to be used in making layers on computer chips like this , and that hafnium oxide will have better properties than some of the other oxides that are used . so i think that hafnium is certainly something that ’ s way up on the charts and soon may be much higher than its existing number on the periodic table - in the elements popularity .	which is hafnium´s preferred oxidation state when forming compounds , such as its oxide ?	which is hafnium´s preferred oxidation state when forming compounds , such as its oxide ?
a general bias in favor of civil policital liberties over sociopolitical rights and of individual over collective or groups rights . others defend universal human rights laws and point at the positive role they have on setting international standards and helping activists in their campaigns . they also point out that not all international human rights instruments are powerless . for example , the european convention on human rights establishes a court where the 47 member countries and their citizens can bring cases .	within the international system , the main body tasked with protecting human rights is :	within the international system , the main body tasked with protecting human rights is :
those signals take the form of chemicals called neurotransmitters . each neurotransmitter plays different roles in regulating our behaviors , emotions , and cognition . but they all work in one of two ways .	how can a neurotransmitter modulate synaptic transmission ?	how can a neurotransmitter modulate synaptic transmission ?
but any battery has a finite supply of metal , and once most of it has oxidized , the battery dies . so rechargeable batteries give us a temporary solution to this problem by making the oxidation-reduction process reversible . electrons can flow back in the opposite direction with the application of electricity .	batteries enable us to _____ .	batteries enable us to _____ .
when the heart is at rest between beats , blood pressure falls to its lowest value , the diastolic pressure . a typical healthy individual produces a systolic pressure between 90 and 120 millimeters of mercury , and diastolic pressure between 60 and 80 . taken together , a normal reading is a bit less than 120 over 80 .	a typical , healthy individual produces a systolic pressure between _____ and _____ millimeters of mercury .	a typical , healthy individual produces a systolic pressure between _____ and _____ millimeters of mercury .
we need to figure out how to value fresh water as a public good , something that 's vital for human and non-human life , now and in the future . now that 's a virtuous , collective task that goes far beyond your shower .	where water is concerned , what does peppard say is a virtuous task ?	where water is concerned , what does peppard say is a virtuous task ?
but while habitable zones are a pretty good place to begin the search for planets with life , there are a couple of complications . first , a planet is n't necessarily habitable just because it 's in the habitable zone . consider the planet venus in our solar system .	what is the habitable zone and why is it so important ? what factors must be in place for us to classify a planet as habitable ?	what is the habitable zone and why is it so important ? what factors must be in place for us to classify a planet as habitable ?
that ’ s this beautiful yellow colour . so , once you ’ ve removed the uranium-235 you ’ re still left with a very large amount , 99-point , more than 99 % of the original mass of your uranium is uranium-238 , which you have removed most but not all of the uranium-235 and this is so-called depleted uranium which is some of the densest material you can get . and so it is used where you want something very heavy that ’ s not too large .	as both the professor and steve explained in the periodic video , `` how to enrich uranium , '' which physical separation process is most commonly used when separating uranium-235 from uranium-238 ?	as both the professor and steve explained in the periodic video , `` how to enrich uranium , '' which physical separation process is most commonly used when separating uranium-235 from uranium-238 ?
and according to ekman , anger , disgust , fear , joy , sadness , and surprise are equally recognizable . as it turns out , computers are rapidly getting better at image recognition thanks to machine learning algorithms , such as neural networks . these consist of artificial nodes that mimic our biological neurons by forming connections and exchanging information .	in order to be trained successfully , neural networks require :	in order to be trained successfully , neural networks require :
i believe in my father , and a 25 year old daredevil named amelia , and a little girl who sells lemonade like nobody 's business . and it 's why i believe in that very first hero we were talking about today , superman . to me , the most important part of the story is n't superman . the most important part of the story is clark kent . and you want to know why ?	tell a short story about what makes your hero so important to you .	tell a short story about what makes your hero so important to you .
though he received many honors for his work , as a quaker , dalton lived modestly until the end of his days . atomic theory was now accepted by the scientific community , but the next major advancement would not come until nearly a century later with the physicist j.j. thompson 's 1897 discovery of the electron . in what we might call the chocolate chip cookie model of the atom , he showed atoms as uniformly packed spheres of positive matter filled with negatively charged electrons .	j.j. thomson discovered which atomic particle ?	j.j. thomson discovered which atomic particle ?
and , take a moment to think , how many times have you listened to it ? chances are you 've heard that chorus repeated dozens , if not hundreds , of times , and it 's not just popular songs in the west that repeat a lot . repetition is a feature that music from cultures around the world tends to share .	after you 've head a piece repeated a lot :	after you 've head a piece repeated a lot :
it 's strong , yet very flexible . and with it , i was able to print the first garment , the red jacket that had the word `` liberté '' -- `` freedom '' in french -- embedded into it . i chose this word because i felt so empowered and free when i could just design a garment from my home and then print it by myself .	why was the word “ liberte ” embedded into her first 3d printed jacket ?	why was the word “ liberte ” embedded into her first 3d printed jacket ?
if we took a single atom and blew it up to the size of the solar system , the wavelength of a cat running from a physicist would be as small as an atom within that solar system . that 's far too small to detect , so we 'll never see wave behavior from a cat . a tiny particle , like an electron , though , can show dramatic evidence of its dual nature .	we see wave behavior in electrons but not in cats because :	we see wave behavior in electrons but not in cats because :
with vladimir 's conversion and marriage to the byzantine emperor 's sister , as well as continued trade along the volga route , the relationship between the two civilizations deepened . byzantine missionaries created an alphabet for slavic languages based on a modified greek script while rus viking warriors served as the byzantine emperor 's elite guard . for several generations , the kievan rus flourished from its rich resources and trade . its noblemen and noblewomen married prominent european rulers , while residents of some cities enjoyed great culture , literacy , and even democratic freedoms uncommon for the time .	which branch of the slavic tribes would eventually form the kievan rus ?	which branch of the slavic tribes would eventually form the kievan rus ?
the node is lined with tiny hairs called cilia , while tilt away from the head and whirl around rapidly , all in the same direction . this synchronized rotation pushes fluid from the right side of the embryo to the left . on the node 's left-hand rim , other cilia sense this fluid flow and activate specific genes on the embryo 's left side .	which human organ listed below is typically positioned towards the right side ?	which human organ listed below is typically positioned towards the right side ?
about three to four months after the initial drilling , the well is ready for fracking to begin . fracking fluid is pumped down into the well at a pressure so high , it cracks the shale rock , creating fractures through which the trapped gas and oil can escape . the fluid itself is more than 90 % water . the rest is made up of concentrated chemical additives .	what are the common ingredients found in fracking fluid ? describe their uses .	what are the common ingredients found in fracking fluid ? describe their uses .
as an experiment , we gave recordings of the same walt whitman poem to 3 different animators . each interpreted the text with no knowledge of what the others were creating here 's the result .	whitman uses alliteration ( the occurrence of the same letter or sound at the beginning of closely connected or adjacent words ) in this poem . read the poem and list the phrases that contain alliteration below . why would a writer use alliteration ?	whitman uses alliteration ( the occurrence of the same letter or sound at the beginning of closely connected or adjacent words ) in this poem . read the poem and list the phrases that contain alliteration below . why would a writer use alliteration ?
as an experiment , we gave recordings of the same walt whitman poem to 3 different animators . each interpreted the text with no knowledge of what the others were creating here 's the result .	whitman repeats the phrase “ till the , ” twice at the beginning of each of the last two lines of the poem . why might he have done this ?	whitman repeats the phrase “ till the , ” twice at the beginning of each of the last two lines of the poem . why might he have done this ?
thanks neil . bromine is also quite a common element in the world . it is found in sea water as bromide , it ’ s also found particularly in the dead sea between israel and jordan where there are very concentrated solutions of bromide .	why did the professor say `` bromine is an unusual element , '' in reference to its isotopes ?	why did the professor say `` bromine is an unusual element , '' in reference to its isotopes ?
what about the number of endangered fish ? out of the 50 total organisms in all three sectors , we know at least seven are sharks , leaving a maximum of 43 fish inside all the tanks . and the more sharks we find in sector 3 , the fewer fish there are to save .	how many total organisms are in the 3 sectors ?	how many total organisms are in the 3 sectors ?
tin has the symbol sn because it comes from the latin word stannum which means tin and in fact if you go to devon in the southwest of england you will find that some of the towns there are called stannary towns because that ’ s where they used to mine and trade in tin . tin has a very old role in trade and in technology . bronze which people used in the old days was an alloy of tin and copper which gave better swords than copper , so if you were fighting with somebody who had a copper sword and you had a bronze one , you won , at least if you were quick . here we see a beautiful sample of tin metal and you can see it is a really beautiful rod and it is packaged in glass to stop oxidation , but you can see a beautiful silvery shiny metal .	what is the name of the alloy composed of tin and copper ?	what is the name of the alloy composed of tin and copper ?
flatulence , or passing gas , is a normal daily phenomenon . most individuals , yes , that includes you , will make anywhere from 500-1500 milliliters of gas and can pass gas ten to twenty times a day . but where does this bodily gas come from ? a small proportion may come from ingesting air during sleep , or at other times , but the majority of gas is produced by bacteria in our intestines as they digest parts of food which we can not .	how much gas does an average person pass/day ?	how much gas does an average person pass/day ?
similarly , novels have helped shape the minds of thought leaders across history . some scholars say that darwin 's theory of evolution is highly indebted to the plots he read and loved . his theory privileges intelligence , swiftness , and adaptability to change - all core characteristics in a hero .	what analogy does wise give for what could be incomplete in darwin 's theory ?	what analogy does wise give for what could be incomplete in darwin 's theory ?
they usually have three parts : sedimentation , filtration , and disinfection . once water has been collected in a treatment facility , it 's ready for cleaning . the first step , sedimentation , just takes time .	what are the steps of water treatment ? describe each phase .	what are the steps of water treatment ? describe each phase .
weird to think about , but that 's the average position of all your mass . many objects ' center of mass are outside their bodies . think of doughnuts or boomerangs .	which of the following objects ' center of mass is located outside of its body ?	which of the following objects ' center of mass is located outside of its body ?
the quantum phenomenon of superposition is a consequence of the dual particle and wave nature of everything . in order for an object to have a wavelength , it must extend over some region of space , which means it occupies many positions at the same time . the wavelength of an object limited to a small region of space ca n't be perfectly defined , though . so it exists in many different wavelengths at the same time .	the temperature of a solid object can be thought of as a measure of how fast the particles making it up are moving back and forth—particles in a cold object are vibrating relatively slowly , while those in a hot object move very rapidly . when a cold object is put in contact with a hot one , the slow-moving particles gradually begin to move faster , which we see as heat flowing into the cold object . materials that conduct electricity well also tend to conduct heat well ( for example , metals are good conductors of both heat and electricity , while wood is a poor conductor of both ) . can you explain this connection in terms of the physics discussed in the video ?	the temperature of a solid object can be thought of as a measure of how fast the particles making it up are moving back and forth—particles in a cold object are vibrating relatively slowly , while those in a hot object move very rapidly . when a cold object is put in contact with a hot one , the slow-moving particles gradually begin to move faster , which we see as heat flowing into the cold object . materials that conduct electricity well also tend to conduct heat well ( for example , metals are good conductors of both heat and electricity , while wood is a poor conductor of both ) . can you explain this connection in terms of the physics discussed in the video ?
but as the complexity of life increased , along with the number of things to count , these methods were no longer sufficient . so as they developed , different civilizations came up with ways of recording higher numbers . many of these systems , like greek , hebrew , and egyptian numerals , were just extensions of tally marks with new symbols added to represent larger magnitudes of value .	what did different civilizations use to record larger quantities ?	what did different civilizations use to record larger quantities ?
after thinking long and hard , you tell the crowd , `` at least one of you has green eyes . '' the dictator is suspicious but reassures himself that your statement could n't have changed anything . you leave , and life on the island seems to go on as before . but on the hundredth morning after your visit , all the prisoners are gone , each having asked to leave the previous night . so how did you outsmart the dictator ?	why do n't the prisoners just take a chance and try to leave ?	why do n't the prisoners just take a chance and try to leave ?
now , i 'm not saying this is the solution to all of humanity 's problems -- since there 's more to bonobo life than the kama sutra . bonobos , like humans , love to play throughout their entire lives . play is not just child 's games .	what do you think cognitively separates humans from bonobos and chimps , our primate cousins .	what do you think cognitively separates humans from bonobos and chimps , our primate cousins .
russian writers had to write differently because russian people lived differently . `` what is 'war and peace ' ? '' he asked .	tolstoy originally thought `` war and peace '' would be a book about :	tolstoy originally thought `` war and peace '' would be a book about :
russian writers had to write differently because russian people lived differently . `` what is 'war and peace ' ? '' he asked .	`` war and peace '' primarily concerns the lives of :	`` war and peace '' primarily concerns the lives of :
russian writers had to write differently because russian people lived differently . `` what is 'war and peace ' ? '' he asked .	henry james thought `` war and peace '' ’ s mix of philosophical essays and fiction narrative made it :	henry james thought `` war and peace '' ’ s mix of philosophical essays and fiction narrative made it :
russian writers had to write differently because russian people lived differently . `` what is 'war and peace ' ? '' he asked .	tolstoy ’ s life before he wrote `` war and peace '' was filled with :	tolstoy ’ s life before he wrote `` war and peace '' was filled with :
russian writers had to write differently because russian people lived differently . `` what is 'war and peace ' ? '' he asked .	`` war and peace '' includes each of the following except :	`` war and peace '' includes each of the following except :
russian writers had to write differently because russian people lived differently . `` what is 'war and peace ' ? '' he asked .	why did tolstoy choose to set the first scenes of `` war and peace '' in the year 1805 ?	why did tolstoy choose to set the first scenes of `` war and peace '' in the year 1805 ?
we are going to take out our molten gallium and we are going to put it under a layer of dilute sulphuric acid , about the same strength as battery acid , so now we are going to make the acid . and to do that we are going to dilute concentrated sulphuric acid with water . now it is always important to remember that when you dilute acid you always put acid into water because the reaction can be exothermic and we want to dissipate the heat in the water so that it does not squirt up on our faces . the water was room temperature , but if i hold the measuring cylinder here it is actually very hot , it is maybe 40 , 50 , 60oc .	as pete reminds us in the video , what is very important to remember when you want to dilute an acid with water ?	as pete reminds us in the video , what is very important to remember when you want to dilute an acid with water ?
and the owners of the target vehicles will suffer the negative consequences of this algorithm through no fault of their own . our new technologies are opening up many other novel ethical dilemmas . for instance , if you had to choose between a car that would always save as many lives as possible in an accident , or one that would save you at any cost , which would you buy ?	what other ethical dilemmas are mentioned here about autonomous cars ?	what other ethical dilemmas are mentioned here about autonomous cars ?
but what causes it , and why is it so universally terrifying ? well , think of some of the worst odors you can imagine , like garbage , feces or rotting meat . all of these smells come from the activity of microorganisms , particularly bacteria , and , as disgusting as it may sound , similar bacteria live in the moisture-rich environment of your mouth .	do you think that bacteria cause other body odors ? develop an experiment to find out .	do you think that bacteria cause other body odors ? develop an experiment to find out .
so , i think all good tornado talks need to start with an awesome tornado shot . and this is not that awesome tornado shot . that was the first tornado i ever saw , it was really cool , really scary , and i 'm showing it to you guys because that 's why i got into the field in the first place .	a key ingredient for tornado formation is ________ .	a key ingredient for tornado formation is ________ .
so , i think all good tornado talks need to start with an awesome tornado shot . and this is not that awesome tornado shot . that was the first tornado i ever saw , it was really cool , really scary , and i 'm showing it to you guys because that 's why i got into the field in the first place .	what are the current theories on tornado formation ? describe how these theories can be tested . what additional data is needed to test these theories ?	what are the current theories on tornado formation ? describe how these theories can be tested . what additional data is needed to test these theories ?
so , i think all good tornado talks need to start with an awesome tornado shot . and this is not that awesome tornado shot . that was the first tornado i ever saw , it was really cool , really scary , and i 'm showing it to you guys because that 's why i got into the field in the first place .	how are tornado forecasts currently made ? how are tornado warnings currently issued ? how can these be improved in the future ?	how are tornado forecasts currently made ? how are tornado warnings currently issued ? how can these be improved in the future ?
so , i think all good tornado talks need to start with an awesome tornado shot . and this is not that awesome tornado shot . that was the first tornado i ever saw , it was really cool , really scary , and i 'm showing it to you guys because that 's why i got into the field in the first place .	compare and contrast how hurricane and tornadoes get their intensity ratings . what are the deficiencies in tornado intensity ratings ? what are some possible solutions ?	compare and contrast how hurricane and tornadoes get their intensity ratings . what are the deficiencies in tornado intensity ratings ? what are some possible solutions ?
and meanwhile seti , the search for extra-terrestrial intelligence , is now releasing its data to the public so that millions of citizen scientists , maybe including you , can bring the power of the crowd to join the search . and here on earth , amazing experiments are being done to try to create life from scratch , life that might be very different from the dna forms we know . all of this will help us understand whether the universe is teeming with life or , whether indeed , it 's just us . either answer , in its own way , is awe-inspiring , because even if we are alone , the fact that we think and dream , and ask these questions might yet turn out to be one of the most important facts about the universe .	at the end of his talk , anderson describes three innovations that will fuel the search for other life in the universe . what are these three things , and how will each contribute to the effort ?	at the end of his talk , anderson describes three innovations that will fuel the search for other life in the universe . what are these three things , and how will each contribute to the effort ?
plants and animals react to changes in natural light and temperature . increasing temperatures cause plants to bloom earlier than before , and become out of sync with the insects and birds in a food web . so , the next time you look out your window and notice what season it is , you may be fooled by those blooming trees .	in just a couple of sentences , explain how the food web works . why does it matter that some plants may be experiencing bud burst a few day earlier ?	in just a couple of sentences , explain how the food web works . why does it matter that some plants may be experiencing bud burst a few day earlier ?
why does this work ? like every other turn in ballet , the fouetté is governed by angular momentum , which is equal to the dancer 's angular velocity times her rotational inertia . and except for what 's lost to friction , that angular momentum has to stay constant while the dancer is on pointe .	what happens to the momentum that is created during a fouetté turn ?	what happens to the momentum that is created during a fouetté turn ?
why does this work ? like every other turn in ballet , the fouetté is governed by angular momentum , which is equal to the dancer 's angular velocity times her rotational inertia . and except for what 's lost to friction , that angular momentum has to stay constant while the dancer is on pointe .	a fouetté turn usually begins with a preceding turn in order to generate a :	a fouetté turn usually begins with a preceding turn in order to generate a :
it 's even responsible for the heart 's dependable thump . first , what exactly is the muscular system ? it 's made up of three main muscle types : skeletal muscle , which attaches via tendons to our bones , cardiac muscle , which is only found in the heart , and smooth muscle , which lines the blood vessels and certain organs , like the intestine and uterus .	what type of muscle makes up the muscular system ?	what type of muscle makes up the muscular system ?
it 's even responsible for the heart 's dependable thump . first , what exactly is the muscular system ? it 's made up of three main muscle types : skeletal muscle , which attaches via tendons to our bones , cardiac muscle , which is only found in the heart , and smooth muscle , which lines the blood vessels and certain organs , like the intestine and uterus .	without the muscular system , we wouldn ’ t be able to make most of the body heat that we require .	without the muscular system , we wouldn ’ t be able to make most of the body heat that we require .
it 's even responsible for the heart 's dependable thump . first , what exactly is the muscular system ? it 's made up of three main muscle types : skeletal muscle , which attaches via tendons to our bones , cardiac muscle , which is only found in the heart , and smooth muscle , which lines the blood vessels and certain organs , like the intestine and uterus .	what benefits does the muscular system provide , other than just helping you to move ?	what benefits does the muscular system provide , other than just helping you to move ?
several hundred small spacecraft are already orbiting the earth , taking pictures of outer space , and collecting data on things , like the behavior of bacteria in the earth 's atmosphere and magnetic signals that could help predict earthquakes . but imagine how much more we could learn if they could fly beyond earth 's orbit . that 's exactly what organizations , like nasa , want to do : send microspacecraft to scout habitable planets and describe astronomical phenomena we ca n't study from earth .	the number of satellites currently in orbit is in the order of the _____ .	the number of satellites currently in orbit is in the order of the _____ .
then you end up with one negatively charged ion and one positively charged ion . and the attraction between these opposite charges is called an ionic bond . this is the kind of sharing where you just give away your toy to someone else and then never get it back .	in an ionic bond , ________ .	in an ionic bond , ________ .
in the late 17th century , a medical student named johannes hofer noticed a strange illness affecting swiss mercenaries serving abroad . its symptoms , including fatigue , insomnia , irregular heartbeat , indigestion , and fever were so strong , the soldiers often had to be discharged .	nostalgic memories :	nostalgic memories :
the founding fathers knew that they did not want to establish another country that was ruled by a king , so the discussions were centered on having a strong and fair national government that protected individual freedoms and did not abuse its power . when the new constitution was adopted in 1787 , the structure of the infant government of the united states called for three separate branches , each with their own powers , and a system of checks and balances . this would ensure that no one branch would ever become too powerful because the other branches would always be able to check the power of the other two .	when was the new constitution adopted ?	when was the new constitution adopted ?
but are you starting to see colors in the rings ? if so , your eyes are playing tricks on you . the disk was only ever black and white .	when we move our eyes , _____ .	when we move our eyes , _____ .
i use haagen dazs as a morphine cylinder because she said my arms were n't strong enough to carry her . i think i 'm weak . i think i 'm fat .	do most people struggle with insecurity ? what do you think is the best way to conquer low self esteem ?	do most people struggle with insecurity ? what do you think is the best way to conquer low self esteem ?
but then disaster struck . from 1845 to 1852 , potato blight disease ravaged the majority of ireland 's potato crop , leading to the irish potato famine , one of the deadliest famines in world history . over a million irish citizens starved to death , and 2 million more left their homes behind . but of course , this was n't the end for the potato .	how many irish starved to death during the irish potato famine ?	how many irish starved to death during the irish potato famine ?
even one can cause cell death . the two most common pathways for repairing double strand breaks are called homologous recombination and non-homologous end joining . homologous recombination uses an undamaged section of similar dna as a template .	telomeres are segments of dna located at the end of chromosomes and have a loop-structure due to a long 3 ' overhang . considering non homologous end joining process , can you suggest the importance of these segments ?	telomeres are segments of dna located at the end of chromosomes and have a loop-structure due to a long 3 ' overhang . considering non homologous end joining process , can you suggest the importance of these segments ?
even one can cause cell death . the two most common pathways for repairing double strand breaks are called homologous recombination and non-homologous end joining . homologous recombination uses an undamaged section of similar dna as a template .	why is non homologous end joining not accurate ?	why is non homologous end joining not accurate ?
-why do mathematicians confuse halloween and christmas ? because oct 31 equals dec 25 . matt parker : ok , so the joke here is that oct 31 equals dec 25 .	prove that october 31 equals december 25 by converting december 25 to base 8 .	prove that october 31 equals december 25 by converting december 25 to base 8 .
shortly after , psyche bore their daughter . they named her pleasure , and she , cupid , and psyche , whose name means soul , have been complicating people 's love lives ever since .	cupid makes people fall in love with each other :	cupid makes people fall in love with each other :
like all muscles , the heart needs oxygen , and during a heart attack , it ca n't get enough . fatty deposits , or plaques , develop on the walls of our coronary arteries . those are the vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the heart .	fatty plaques that build up on the walls of the coronary arteries can eventually lead to heart attacks . what is the mechanism through which this happens ?	fatty plaques that build up on the walls of the coronary arteries can eventually lead to heart attacks . what is the mechanism through which this happens ?
their paths diverged in the most critical of steps : the first one . in the human genome project 's approach , the genome was first divided into smaller , more manageable chunks about 150,000 base pairs long that overlapped each other a little bit on both ends . each of these fragments of dna was inserted inside a bacterial artificial chromosome where they were cloned and fingerprinted .	a single human genome is approximately _____ base pairs long .	a single human genome is approximately _____ base pairs long .
if pruney fingers are rain treads , then they should look like the river networks on convex promontories . in fact , that 's exactly the morphology we find among pruney fingers ! when we grip , then , our pruney wrinkles really do channel out the water .	pruney fingers have the peculiar morphology expected for :	pruney fingers have the peculiar morphology expected for :
so praseodymium is a very interesting element . it ’ s got a myriad of uses but perhaps the most interesting one is that it has been used to enable us to get within 1/1000th of a degree of absolute zero , which is minus 273 degrees c , which is pretty darn cold .	praseodymium reacts slowly with oxygen in the air , forming a flaky oxide layer on the surface of the sample . what is the color of this oxide layer ?	praseodymium reacts slowly with oxygen in the air , forming a flaky oxide layer on the surface of the sample . what is the color of this oxide layer ?
`` hey , another atom . i 'm hydrogen , nice to meet you .	what does a physicist mean when she says “ a particle decays to another ” ? could you give example of such a decay ? does every particle decay ? why ?	what does a physicist mean when she says “ a particle decays to another ” ? could you give example of such a decay ? does every particle decay ? why ?
`` hey , another atom . i 'm hydrogen , nice to meet you .	what is orbiting the antiproton in an antihydrogen atom ?	what is orbiting the antiproton in an antihydrogen atom ?
the largest organ in your body is n't your liver or your brain . it 's your skin , with a surface area of about 20 square feet in adults . though different areas of the skin have different characteristics , much of this surface performs similar functions , such as sweating , feeling heat and cold , and growing hair . but after a deep cut or wound , the newly healed skin will look different from the surrounding area , and may not fully regain all its abilities for a while , or at all .	identify three features of the newly formed skin that are different from a healthy patch of skin . suggest a reason for each of these differences .	identify three features of the newly formed skin that are different from a healthy patch of skin . suggest a reason for each of these differences .
since the 19th century , beekeepers have reported occasional mass disappearances , giving them enigmatic names like disappearing disease , spring dwindle disease and autumn collapse . but when in 2006 such losses were found to affect more than half of all hives in the us , the phenomenon got a new name : colony collapse disorder . the most frightening thing about this mystery is n't that we 'll have to go back to using regular sugar in our tea .	when was colony collapse disorder found to affect over half the commercial hives in the united states ?	when was colony collapse disorder found to affect over half the commercial hives in the united states ?
after the first five states ratified the constitution quickly , the debate grew more intense . massachusetts and several other states would only ratify if they could propose their own amendments for consideration . leading federalists recognized the need to compromise and promised to give them due regard .	massachusetts and several other states would only approve of the constitution if they could :	massachusetts and several other states would only approve of the constitution if they could :
ancient art often showed all figures on the same plane , varying in size by symbolic importance . classical greek and roman artists realized they could make objects seem further by drawing them smaller , but many early attempts at perspective were inconsistent or incorrect . in 15th century florence , artists realized the illusion of perspective could be achieved with higher degrees of sophistication by applying mathematical principles . in 1485 , leonardo da vinci manipulated the mathematics to create the first known anamorphic drawing . a number of other artists later picked up the technique , including hans holbein in `` the ambassadors . ''	how do artists physically create anamorphisms ?	how do artists physically create anamorphisms ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar you believe that the sun is much larger than the earth , that the earth is a roughly spherical planet that rotates on its axis every 24 hours and it revolves around the sun once every 365 days . you believe that you were born on a particular date , that you were born to two human parents and that each of your human parents was born on an earlier date .	njeri is an expert astronomer , and she has been watching with concern as an asteroid moves closer and closer to the earth . on the basis of her observations , njeri claims that there is a 100 % chance that the asteroid will hit the earth . she has announced a 100 % chance of asteroid contact only 20 times in her career , and she has been right 17 of those times . how confident should you be that the asteroid will hit the earth ?	njeri is an expert astronomer , and she has been watching with concern as an asteroid moves closer and closer to the earth . on the basis of her observations , njeri claims that there is a 100 % chance that the asteroid will hit the earth . she has announced a 100 % chance of asteroid contact only 20 times in her career , and she has been right 17 of those times . how confident should you be that the asteroid will hit the earth ?
the starting materials ? a mix of co2 molecules from the air , and preassembled molecules called ribulose biphosphate , or rubp , each containing five carbons . the initiator ?	ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase ( rubisco ) has the job of :	ribulose bisphosphate carboxylase ( rubisco ) has the job of :
each state gets two senators and some number of representatives , depending on how many people live in that state . the executive branch is described in article 2 of the constitution . the leaders of this branch of government are the president and vice president , who are responsible for enforcing the laws that congress sets forth .	which branch of government is described in article i of the constitution ?	which branch of government is described in article i of the constitution ?
it appears to be written by two or more hands , with the painting done by yet another party . over the years , three main theories about the manuscript 's text have emerged . the first is that it 's written in cypher , a secret code deliberately designed to hide secret meaning .	the voynich manuscript was discovered 100 years ago in :	the voynich manuscript was discovered 100 years ago in :
the universe is bustling with matter and energy . even in the vast apparent emptiness of intergalactic space , there 's one hydrogen atom per cubic meter .	what observation has led scientists to invoke the existence of dark energy ?	what observation has led scientists to invoke the existence of dark energy ?
pretty cool . but , of course , when i jump straight up into the air , the earth does n't move underneath me because i continued to spin with it . we are all spinning with the earth and that is why slamming on a set of magical planetary breaks that caused everything classically called earth to stop spinning would be catastrophic .	when you jump in the air , why does n't the earth continue to spin ?	when you jump in the air , why does n't the earth continue to spin ?
how 's that possible ? you already know that every water molecule is made up of two hydrogen atoms bonded to one oxygen atom . let 's look at a few of the molecules in a drop of water , and let 's say the temperature is 25 degrees celcius .	in our two-dimensional molecular picture of ice ( at 2:30 ) , how many hydrogen atoms surround every oxygen atom ? how many oxygen atoms surround every hydrogen atom ? but remember that real life is three-dimensional . do some research and find the most molecular common structure of ice . study it closely and figure out how many hydrogens surround each oxygen and how many oxygens surround each hydrogen . is our 2d model a good approximation for the 3d reality ? why or why not ?	in our two-dimensional molecular picture of ice ( at 2:30 ) , how many hydrogen atoms surround every oxygen atom ? how many oxygen atoms surround every hydrogen atom ? but remember that real life is three-dimensional . do some research and find the most molecular common structure of ice . study it closely and figure out how many hydrogens surround each oxygen and how many oxygens surround each hydrogen . is our 2d model a good approximation for the 3d reality ? why or why not ?
ok , record it . there 's the animal 's toes . '' `` so how do their feet stick and unstick so quickly ? ''	what is another animal that exhibits an incredible phenomenon , and how can it be used to make life better for humankind ?	what is another animal that exhibits an incredible phenomenon , and how can it be used to make life better for humankind ?
the recruitment process can be subtle , sometimes taking months to establish a relationship . in fact , more than two-thirds of cult members are recruited by a friend , family member , or co-worker whose invitations are harder to refuse . once in the cult , members are subjected to multiple forms of indoctrination .	you think a friend of yours is about to join a cult . what would you say to your friend ?	you think a friend of yours is about to join a cult . what would you say to your friend ?
some of the most iconic shark species , like great whites , makos , porbeagles , and salmon sharks owe their success to another surprising trait : warm blood inside a cold-blooded creature . inside their bodies , they have bundles of arteries and veins called rete mirabile . here , venous blood warmed up by the shark 's working muscles passes right next to arteries carrying cold , oxygen-rich blood from the gills .	the rete mirabile is a :	the rete mirabile is a :
ornate candle holders relate suleiman 's conquest of hungary , while giant caligraphy discs hung from the ceiling remind visitors for the first four caliphs who followed muhammad . though the building you see today still looks like a mosque , it is now a museum , a decision made in 1935 by kemal ataturk , the modernizing first president of turkey following the ottoman empire 's collapse . it was this secularization that allowed for removal of the carpets hiding the marble floor decorations and the plaster covering the christian mosaics .	mustafa kemal became the modernizing president of turkey and he ________ .	mustafa kemal became the modernizing president of turkey and he ________ .
the earliest sites of salt harvesting date to at least 6,000 bc in china and europe there 's salt in most of the blue wet stuff covering earth once you boil away or evaporate all that pesky h2o but there 's pure sodium chloride in earth 's crust , if you can find it . following animal trails led us to natural salt licks and some of these became our first highways . several ancient salt harvesting cities still bear a pinch of history in their name .	following animals to salt licks lead to some of our first ...	following animals to salt licks lead to some of our first ...
now , remember that in a covalent bond two electrons are shared , usually unequally , between atoms . in a hydrogen bond , a hydrogen atom is shared , also unequally , between atoms . one hydrogen bond looks like this . two look like this .	a hydrogen bond is when ________ .	a hydrogen bond is when ________ .
the theory not only shattered our previous understanding of reality but would also pave the way for technologies , ranging from particle accelerators , to the global positioning system . one might think that this was enough , but in september , a fourth paper arrived as a `` by the way '' follow-up to the special relativity paper . einstein had thought a little bit more about his theory , and realized it also implied that mass and energy , one apparently solid and the other supposedly ethereal , were actually equivalent .	einstein 's fourth `` miracle year '' paper , in september 1905 , expanded on the results of the relativity paper and thereby concluded that :	einstein 's fourth `` miracle year '' paper , in september 1905 , expanded on the results of the relativity paper and thereby concluded that :
and here are just a few of the beautiful bees that we have in kenya , in fact , not far from nairobi . now , how many of you like coffee ? yeah , i actually ca n't drink it because if i do , my hands shake , and i ca n't pick up ants and bees .	how many known insect species are there on earth ?	how many known insect species are there on earth ?
for a moment , forget all of it . toss out everything you know about the president . now , start over .	the electoral college was created in 1787 to avoid direct election of the president by the voters . is that system still a good idea , or should it be changed ? how ?	the electoral college was created in 1787 to avoid direct election of the president by the voters . is that system still a good idea , or should it be changed ? how ?
with cities now producing surplus food , as well as tools , crafts , and other goods , there was now the possibility of commerce and interaction over longer distances . and as trade flourished , so did technologies that facilitated it , like carts , ships , roads , and ports . of course , these things required even more labor to build and maintain , so more people were drawn from the countryside to the cities as more jobs and opportunities became available .	which of the below technologies is a development that resulted from the desire to trade with neighboring communities ?	which of the below technologies is a development that resulted from the desire to trade with neighboring communities ?
so every time we go , new species of life . the ocean is full of life . and yet the deepest part of the ocean -- when we go to that mountain range , we find hot springs . now we were sure -- because this is poisonous water , because it 's so deep it would crush the titanic the same way you crush an empty cup in your hand -- we were sure there would be no life there at all .	why is it so surprising to find an abundance of living things in the deepest parts of the ocean ?	why is it so surprising to find an abundance of living things in the deepest parts of the ocean ?
how do we calculate those odds ? for the sake of simplicity , we 'll demonstrate with a simplified case , four instruments and no more than two guesses allowed for each musician . let 's start by finding the odds of failure , the chance that someone will need to open three or four boxes before they find their instrument .	the violinist managed to persuade the conductor to admit friend of his into the room who was allowed to look into all the boxes and then switch 2 instruments , but he was not allowed to communicate with any of the musicians . what can he do to 100 % ensure success ? in what case is this necessary ?	the violinist managed to persuade the conductor to admit friend of his into the room who was allowed to look into all the boxes and then switch 2 instruments , but he was not allowed to communicate with any of the musicians . what can he do to 100 % ensure success ? in what case is this necessary ?
in testing , nasa ’ s found that they could work at speeds up to mach 15 , at least in theory . there ’ s one big drawback , though : scramjet engines only work at hypersonic speeds . the x-43a , for example , an unmanned test plane that uses a scramjet , has to be accelerated above mach 5 before it can fly on its own .	what is currently the major drawback preventing the scramjet engine from being used for commercial flight ?	what is currently the major drawback preventing the scramjet engine from being used for commercial flight ?
in 1898 , marie and pierre curie discovered radium . claimed to have restorative properties , radium was added to toothpaste , medicine , water , and food . a glowing , luminous green , it was also used in beauty products and jewelry .	when first discovered , radium was added to toothpaste , medicine , beauty products , jewelry , water , and food because of claimed ____________ and its _____________ .	when first discovered , radium was added to toothpaste , medicine , beauty products , jewelry , water , and food because of claimed ____________ and its _____________ .
in the 17th century , british colonists arriving in the new world found a different , but very similar looking , species of mistletoe . they applied it to these tales of magic , fertility , and love , spreading the mistletoe-hanging tradition from europe into america . by the 18th century , people in britain had turned this into a christmas tradition , but this custom comes down to more than just human imagination .	why is keeping the leaves in winter such an outstanding feature among plants in the northern hemisphere where the mistletoe tradition began ?	why is keeping the leaves in winter such an outstanding feature among plants in the northern hemisphere where the mistletoe tradition began ?
the system of both cats is again in a superposition state , with each outcome having a 25 % chance rather than 50 % . but here 's the cool thing : quantum mechanics tells us it 's possible to erase the both cats alive and both cats dead outcomes from the superposition state . in other words , there can be a two cat system , such that the outcome will always be one cat alive and the other cat dead . the technical term for this is that the states of the cats are entangled .	in the version of the schrodinger ’ s cat experiment with two cats in which one of the cats always comes out alive and the other cat always comes out dead , we say that the states of the cats are said to be :	in the version of the schrodinger ’ s cat experiment with two cats in which one of the cats always comes out alive and the other cat always comes out dead , we say that the states of the cats are said to be :
some of his protagonists ' struggles come from within . the short story , `` a hunger artist , '' describes a circus performer whose act consists of extended fasts . he 's upset that the circus master limits these to 40 days , believing this prevents him from achieving greatness in his art .	why did the protagonist in `` the hunger artist '' choose not to eat ?	why did the protagonist in `` the hunger artist '' choose not to eat ?
of his protagonist , shelley wrote , `` prometheus is the type of the highest perfection of moral and intellectual nature , impelled by the purest and the truest motives to the best and noblest ends . '' his wife mary envisaged prometheus as a more cautionary figure and subtitled her novel `` frankenstein : the modern prometheus . '' this suggests the damage of corrupting the natural order and remains relevant to the ethical questions surrounding science and technology today .	prometheus stole fire :	prometheus stole fire :
of his protagonist , shelley wrote , `` prometheus is the type of the highest perfection of moral and intellectual nature , impelled by the purest and the truest motives to the best and noblest ends . '' his wife mary envisaged prometheus as a more cautionary figure and subtitled her novel `` frankenstein : the modern prometheus . '' this suggests the damage of corrupting the natural order and remains relevant to the ethical questions surrounding science and technology today .	as punishment , prometheus :	as punishment , prometheus :
of his protagonist , shelley wrote , `` prometheus is the type of the highest perfection of moral and intellectual nature , impelled by the purest and the truest motives to the best and noblest ends . '' his wife mary envisaged prometheus as a more cautionary figure and subtitled her novel `` frankenstein : the modern prometheus . '' this suggests the damage of corrupting the natural order and remains relevant to the ethical questions surrounding science and technology today .	why do you think prometheus bore his punishment without complaint ? what does this tell us about his belief in human progress ?	why do you think prometheus bore his punishment without complaint ? what does this tell us about his belief in human progress ?
unsatisfied with the final edit , he asked his friends to burn it , but they refused , and soon after virgil 's death , augustus ordered it to be published . why was augustus so interested in saving virgil 's poem ? the romans had little tradition of writing serious literature and virgil wanted to create a poem to rival the `` iliad '' and `` odyssey '' of ancient greece . the `` aeneid , '' a 9,896 line poem , spans twelve separate sections , or books , the first six of which mirror the structure of the `` odyssey '' and the last six echo the `` iliad . ''	which ancient country ’ s literature inspired virgil ’ s writing ?	which ancient country ’ s literature inspired virgil ’ s writing ?
incentivize its consumption or pollution ? these are all questions that stem from how we think about fresh water 's value . is it an economic commodity ?	what do you do to conserve water ? do you think that 's enough ?	what do you do to conserve water ? do you think that 's enough ?
and after listening to the students talk and seeing your performance , i thought i should organize my friends and we should go down to a board meeting and tell them that want to have advanced classes for a through g requirements . '' so , i tell you this story today in honor of the legacy of young people that have come before , so that they will have guideposts and signs to be the change that they want to see in this world , as claudette colvin was . because she struck down the constitutionality of segregated seats in montgomery , alabama .	makeba quotes legendary leader mahatma gandhi : “ you must be the change you want to see in the world. ” what change do you want to see in the world ? what does it suggest to you about your future path ?	makeba quotes legendary leader mahatma gandhi : “ you must be the change you want to see in the world. ” what change do you want to see in the world ? what does it suggest to you about your future path ?
there 's an organism that changed the world . it caused both the first mass extinction in earth 's history and also paved the way for complex life . how ?	the first great extinction occurred because :	the first great extinction occurred because :
there 's an organism that changed the world . it caused both the first mass extinction in earth 's history and also paved the way for complex life . how ?	oxygenic photosynthesis at first caused a mass extinction , but also allowed complex life on earth to develop . in what ways does free oxygen allow complex life ?	oxygenic photosynthesis at first caused a mass extinction , but also allowed complex life on earth to develop . in what ways does free oxygen allow complex life ?
this is why the second graph , which show the average temperature variation each year , is far more significant . when they 're used well , graphs can help us intuitively grasp complex data . but as visual software has enabled more usage of graphs throughout all media , it 's also made them easier to use in a careless or dishonest way . so the next time you see a graph , do n't be swayed by the lines and curves .	what is the best way to protect yourself against misleading graphs ?	what is the best way to protect yourself against misleading graphs ?
even chemists sometimes wonder how people can get excited about particular parts of chemistry , and the rare earth elements are elements which , those who are not working in the area don ’ t always see why it can be very exciting . so when i was a student i saw an advertisement in the lab where i was working about a lecture about the oxidation states of the rare earth elements , and the relative stability of two of the oxidation states by a chemist called david johnson , who in those days worked for the open university . and , i went to this lecture because i couldn ’ t imagine how anybody could make it interesting , and it was really fascinating !	what was the lecture topic that fascinated the professor when he was a student ?	what was the lecture topic that fascinated the professor when he was a student ?
some have theorized that these artworks are the creation of hunters , or of holy men in trance-like states . and we 've found examples created by men , women , and even children . and why did they create this art ?	can you think of examples of other creative arts that mimic or echo aspects of cave paintings ?	can you think of examples of other creative arts that mimic or echo aspects of cave paintings ?
some have theorized that these artworks are the creation of hunters , or of holy men in trance-like states . and we 've found examples created by men , women , and even children . and why did they create this art ?	which theory of cave paintings most appeals to you ? do you have any other theories about what they might have been created for ?	which theory of cave paintings most appeals to you ? do you have any other theories about what they might have been created for ?
gender and age affect this repair mechanism , which is why young men with more testosterone have a leg up in the muscle building game . genetic factors also play a role in one 's ability to grow muscle . some people have more robust immune reactions to muscle damage , and are better able to repair and replace damaged muscle fibers , increasing their muscle-building potential . the body responds to the demands you place on it .	the most commonly accepted theory of muscle growth states that _____ within a muscle activate a ( n ) ______ process that causes dormant stem cells to build and regenerate muscle tissue	the most commonly accepted theory of muscle growth states that _____ within a muscle activate a ( n ) ______ process that causes dormant stem cells to build and regenerate muscle tissue
gender and age affect this repair mechanism , which is why young men with more testosterone have a leg up in the muscle building game . genetic factors also play a role in one 's ability to grow muscle . some people have more robust immune reactions to muscle damage , and are better able to repair and replace damaged muscle fibers , increasing their muscle-building potential . the body responds to the demands you place on it .	many people perform resistance training but never see appreciable changes in their muscle size . can you think of factors that may contribute to the large variation in exercise-induced muscle growth ? how might these factors affect the body ’ s ability to rebuild tissue ?	many people perform resistance training but never see appreciable changes in their muscle size . can you think of factors that may contribute to the large variation in exercise-induced muscle growth ? how might these factors affect the body ’ s ability to rebuild tissue ?
let 's look at how memories form in the first place . when you experience something , like dialing a phone number , the experience is converted into a pulse of electrical energy that zips along a network of neurons . information first lands in short term memory , where it 's available from anywhere from a few seconds to a couple of minutes .	you look up a friends phone number , however when you call the number , the line is busy . when you start to dial the number again at a later time , you realize you no longer remember it . this experience probably occurred because the phone number was only temporarily stored in your :	you look up a friends phone number , however when you call the number , the line is busy . when you start to dial the number again at a later time , you realize you no longer remember it . this experience probably occurred because the phone number was only temporarily stored in your :
just as a written metaphor is a description that relates one object to another , a visual metaphor uses imagery to suggest a particular association or point of similarity . our lesson `` big data '' is a great example of a situation where visual metaphors played a huge role in explaining the concept . what is big data in the first place ? good question !	at what point in history did the big data lesson start ?	at what point in history did the big data lesson start ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar 9th of january , 2007 joshua bell , one of the greatest violinist in the world , played to a packed audience at boston 's stately symphony hall of 1,000 people where most seats went for more than $ 100 . he was used to full , sell-out shows .	where did joshua bell play for an audience of 1,000 people where most seats went for $ 100 ?	where did joshua bell play for an audience of 1,000 people where most seats went for $ 100 ?
if your partitions are pretty balanced , dividing the books into 128 sub-lines of ten would take about seven rounds , or 8,960 seconds . sorting these sub-lines would add about 22 seconds each . all in all , this method known as quicksort could sort the books in under three and a half hours .	which of the following sorting algorithms was not covered in this video ?	which of the following sorting algorithms was not covered in this video ?
if your partitions are pretty balanced , dividing the books into 128 sub-lines of ten would take about seven rounds , or 8,960 seconds . sorting these sub-lines would add about 22 seconds each . all in all , this method known as quicksort could sort the books in under three and a half hours .	in which sorting algorithm did we choose partition books repeatedly to divide up the line into progressively smaller sub-lines ?	in which sorting algorithm did we choose partition books repeatedly to divide up the line into progressively smaller sub-lines ?
it helps , of course , to have a lot of words . dothraki has thousands of words . na'vi started with 1,500 words . fans on websites have steadily created more .	if you were assigned to make up a language , how would you come up with words ? based on what sounds pleasant , or a system of some kind , or something random ?	if you were assigned to make up a language , how would you come up with words ? based on what sounds pleasant , or a system of some kind , or something random ?
who determined the clock and why in the world are there so many different time zones ? the first form of telling time was the sundial and the earliest sundials known from the archaeological record are obelisks from nearly 5,000 years ago . sundials indicate the time by casting a shadow onto a surface .	the first form of telling time was the :	the first form of telling time was the :
the senate acts as both judge and jury , conducting the trial and deliberating after hearing all the arguments . if it 's the president or vice president being impeached , the chief justice of the supreme court presides . a conviction requires a supermajority of two-thirds and results in automatic removal from power .	how many votes are required for conviction of a president or vice president ?	how many votes are required for conviction of a president or vice president ?
if i try to turn my flat sheet into part of a sphere , there 's no way i can do it . you can check this for yourself , by trying to fit a flat sheet of paper onto a soccer ball without stretching or crumpling the paper . it 's just not possible .	many of the ideas in curved-surface math ( which is technically called “ differential geometry ” ) first originated when people tried to draw accurate maps of the earth ’ s surface . maps are drawings of pieces of the surface of the earth - which is approximately spherical - on flat pieces of paper . but we know that spheres and flat pieces of paper aren ’ t isometric , so you can ’ t transform one into the other without stretching . what consequences do you think this might have for the shapes of countries on a map of the world ? it helps to visualize this problem if you carefully peel a mandarin orange , and then try to lay the strips down flat on a table .	many of the ideas in curved-surface math ( which is technically called “ differential geometry ” ) first originated when people tried to draw accurate maps of the earth ’ s surface . maps are drawings of pieces of the surface of the earth - which is approximately spherical - on flat pieces of paper . but we know that spheres and flat pieces of paper aren ’ t isometric , so you can ’ t transform one into the other without stretching . what consequences do you think this might have for the shapes of countries on a map of the world ? it helps to visualize this problem if you carefully peel a mandarin orange , and then try to lay the strips down flat on a table .
follow these steps and you too can change the way the world smells to you . first , stick your nose in it . some animals that are known to be great smellers , like dogs who can sniff out explosives and pigs who can find truffles underground , put their noses right at the place they want to smell .	you really want to smell something . the best thing to do is “ stick your nose in it. ” why ?	you really want to smell something . the best thing to do is “ stick your nose in it. ” why ?
the use of time zones irons out these differences and makes communication significantly smoother . a time zone is a region on earth that has a uniform standard time . there are 40 time zones on land because the earliest and latest time zones are 26 hours apart . any given calendar date exists at some point on the globe for 50 hours .	a time zone is a :	a time zone is a :
ok . so we 've nailed its motor problems . now what about that whole groaning , lack of talking thing ?	why is it not enough to make global statements like “ they have movement problems ” or “ they have language problems ” when trying to diagnose the nature of an injury in a neurological patient ? how do the specific details of their symptoms provide insights as to the nature of the brain damage ?	why is it not enough to make global statements like “ they have movement problems ” or “ they have language problems ” when trying to diagnose the nature of an injury in a neurological patient ? how do the specific details of their symptoms provide insights as to the nature of the brain damage ?
or a radically different idea of humanity that exposes how origin myths mystify , disguise global power , rapacious exploitation , poverty , the worldwide oppression of women and girls , and of course massive , accelerating inequalities . origin myths are closely linked to tradition . the word 'tradition ' points to something old and permanent , almost natural .	how does bhatt suggest we deal with our origin myths ?	how does bhatt suggest we deal with our origin myths ?
( laughter ) grizzly stuff ! but what the villagers interpreted as unholy reanimation were actually normal symptoms of death . when a body decomposes , the skin dehydrates , causing the hair and fingernails to extend .	what frightened villagers interpreted as unholy reanimation were actually normal symptoms of what ?	what frightened villagers interpreted as unholy reanimation were actually normal symptoms of what ?
just keep the cycle going . make us pay for an education that will end up failing us . put us in debt so we 're giving back the money we earned from our back-breaking work .	in this piece , lissaint is staging a robbery to pay for	in this piece , lissaint is staging a robbery to pay for
i 'm going to end with this real quick . and this is not my last tornado i ever saw , but i really like this image , because this was taken with one of those mobile radars i was talking about . this is a tornado , not a hurricane , and this is what it looks like when you 're really close to it .	doppler weather radars can measure ________ .	doppler weather radars can measure ________ .
oh , folks ! this is one for the history books . dark horse playwright , philocles , has taken first prize .	over the course of greek history , the role of the chorus _____ .	over the course of greek history , the role of the chorus _____ .
it adds some causal evidence that a brain area might be required for a behavior . same with brain simulation studies . if stimulating a brain area causes a behavior , then that 's good evidence that the brain region is involved in that behavior .	studies on patients with brain lesions are important for science because :	studies on patients with brain lesions are important for science because :
it adds some causal evidence that a brain area might be required for a behavior . same with brain simulation studies . if stimulating a brain area causes a behavior , then that 's good evidence that the brain region is involved in that behavior .	how can inferences based off of findings from individual studies ( or sets of studies ) be incorrect ? what are other examples of a neuroscience finding being misinterpreted or misrepresented ?	how can inferences based off of findings from individual studies ( or sets of studies ) be incorrect ? what are other examples of a neuroscience finding being misinterpreted or misrepresented ?
rising temperatures and seas , massive droughts , changing landscapes . successfully adapting to climate change is growing increasingly important . for humans , this means using our technological advancement to find solutions , like smarter cities and better water management .	some organisms may not be able to evolve fast enough to climate change to survive . how might this affect this biodiversity on earth and why is this so important to consider ?	some organisms may not be able to evolve fast enough to climate change to survive . how might this affect this biodiversity on earth and why is this so important to consider ?
there are still some scientists who would say , hogwash . the only meaningful answer to the question of how many universes there are is one , only one universe . and a few philosophers and mystics might argue that even our own universe is an illusion . so , as you can see , right now there is no agreement on this question , not even close .	if every atom in our observable universe ( which is estimated to have 10 to the 80 atoms ) had its own universe ( like ours ) , and all the atoms in all those universes each had its own universe , and all the atoms in all those universes had its own universe , how many universes would that be altogether ?	if every atom in our observable universe ( which is estimated to have 10 to the 80 atoms ) had its own universe ( like ours ) , and all the atoms in all those universes each had its own universe , and all the atoms in all those universes had its own universe , how many universes would that be altogether ?
but if you want to know more about who was recently nominated , you 'll have to be patient . all information about nominations remains secret for 50 years . take martin luther king jr. we did n't actually know who nominated him until 2014 .	how long are nominations kept secret ?	how long are nominations kept secret ?
after months lost at sea , he 's slowly drawn into a massive vortex , where trash accumulates , a place known as the great pacific garbage patch . here the ocean 's currents have trapped millions of pieces of plastic debris . this is one of five plastic-filled gyres in the world 's seas .	marine animals are impacted by ocean plastic because :	marine animals are impacted by ocean plastic because :
and is it fair to second guess him so many decades later ? there 's no definitive answer , which is part of why authorial intent is a complex , tangled , fun question to unravel . and some recent scholars have interpreted `` the wonderful wizard of oz '' in the opposite way as littlefield .	what is meant by the term “ authorial intent ” ?	what is meant by the term “ authorial intent ” ?
and finally , it houses and keeps your body 's trillions of bacterial inhabitants , your microbiota , under control . mucus contains lots of different compounds , including proteins , fats , and salts . but a key component of mucus versatility is a set of proteins called mucins . mucins are the primary large molecules in mucus and are essential for giving mucus its slippery feel . they belong to a class of proteins called glycoproteins which are built out of both amino acids and sugars .	the primary proteins in mucus that give it a gel-like structure and make it versatile are :	the primary proteins in mucus that give it a gel-like structure and make it versatile are :
my first app was a unique fortune teller called earth fortune that would display different colors of earth depending on what your fortune was . my favorite and most successful app is bustin jieber - ( laughter ) - which is a justin bieber whac-a-mole . i created it because a lot of people at school disliked justin bieber a little bit , so i decided to make the app .	describe what the bustin jieber app does .	describe what the bustin jieber app does .
the way to a more useful and elegant system lay in something called positional notation . previous number systems needed to draw many symbols repeatedly and invent a new symbol for each larger magnitude . but a positional system could reuse the same symbols , assigning them different values based on their position in the sequence .	why was the number zero an important addition to number systems ?	why was the number zero an important addition to number systems ?
when you eat quickly , your body does n't have time to recognize the state it 's in . once nutrients and gastrointestinal hormones are present in the blood , they trigger the pancreas to release insulin . insulin stimulates the body 's fat cells to make another hormone called leptin .	what hormone is released from your pancreas when nutrients and gastrointestinal hormones are present in the blood ?	what hormone is released from your pancreas when nutrients and gastrointestinal hormones are present in the blood ?
[ 6.5 million more are displaced within syria . ] [ in november 2015 , the government of canada promised ] [ to resettle 25,000 syrian refugees within 6 months . ] [ the 2400 court motel in vancouver is one of 9 temporary housing sites ] [ for the newly arrived refugees . ]	in november 2015 , the government of canada promised to resettle 25,000 syrian refugees within how many months ?	in november 2015 , the government of canada promised to resettle 25,000 syrian refugees within how many months ?
[ 6.5 million more are displaced within syria . ] [ in november 2015 , the government of canada promised ] [ to resettle 25,000 syrian refugees within 6 months . ] [ the 2400 court motel in vancouver is one of 9 temporary housing sites ] [ for the newly arrived refugees . ]	the prime minister of canada , justin trudeau , when asked about welcoming syrian refugees to canada said in a 2015 interview , `` this is something that we are able to do in this country because we define a canadian not by a skin color or a language or a religion or a background , but by a shared set of values , aspirations , hopes and dreams that not just canadians but people around the world share . '' what do you think trudeau means by a `` shared set of values '' ? how does mohammed live by a set of values ? do you think that we , as humans , have a moral responsibility to respond to other humans in need during a humanitarian crisis ? why or why not ?	the prime minister of canada , justin trudeau , when asked about welcoming syrian refugees to canada said in a 2015 interview , `` this is something that we are able to do in this country because we define a canadian not by a skin color or a language or a religion or a background , but by a shared set of values , aspirations , hopes and dreams that not just canadians but people around the world share . '' what do you think trudeau means by a `` shared set of values '' ? how does mohammed live by a set of values ? do you think that we , as humans , have a moral responsibility to respond to other humans in need during a humanitarian crisis ? why or why not ?
so cells must constantly keep entropy in check by using energy to maintain their molecules in the very complicated formations necessary for biological functions to occur . the breaking down of these arrangements when the entire cell succumbs to entropy is what eventually results in death . this is the reason organisms ca n't be simply sparked back to life once they 've already died .	you can reboot a cell phone by simply putting in a new battery . why does that work in a solid-state device like a cell phone , but not in a living cell ?	you can reboot a cell phone by simply putting in a new battery . why does that work in a solid-state device like a cell phone , but not in a living cell ?
this is where we think , feel , see , hear , desire ... and remember . and the synapse is where alzheimer 's happens . let 's zoom in on the synapse and look at a cartoon representation of what 's going on .	briefly describe what happens in the synapses between neurons when a person has alzheimer ’ s .	briefly describe what happens in the synapses between neurons when a person has alzheimer ’ s .
like a child playing air guitar , there are no wrong notes . allow young musicians to play and perform with accomplished musicians on a daily basis . encourage young musicians to play more than they practice .	should beginning musicians play with accomplished musicians ? why ? how often should it happen ? who are some of your musical idols ? do you think they improve when they play with other musicians ?	should beginning musicians play with accomplished musicians ? why ? how often should it happen ? who are some of your musical idols ? do you think they improve when they play with other musicians ?
we 've reached the point that research has made us so sure that vertebrates recognize pain that it 's illegal in many countries to needlessly harm these animals . but what about other types of animals like invertebrates ? these animals are n't legally protected , partly because their behaviors are harder to read .	what behaviors have researchers measured in invertebrates after injury ? are these similar or different to those observed in vertebrate animals ?	what behaviors have researchers measured in invertebrates after injury ? are these similar or different to those observed in vertebrate animals ?
the group of artists who are considered abstract expressionists includes barnett newman with his existential zips , willem de kooning , famous for his travestied women , helen frankenthaler , who created soak-stains , and others . but perhaps the most famous , influential , and head-scratching one was jackson pollock . most of his paintings are immediately recognizable .	reflect about and respond to the statement : “ anyone can do what jackson pollock did . ”	reflect about and respond to the statement : “ anyone can do what jackson pollock did . ”
you know you 're watching this video with your eyes , hearing it with your ears . your senses show you the world as it is . they are n't deceiving you , but sometimes they do .	why can the senses be tricky to our perception ?	why can the senses be tricky to our perception ?
in primitive caveman terms , stress can make you fight for your life , or run for your life , if , for example , you 're confronted by a hungry saber-tooth tiger . special chemicals called stress hormones run through your body , giving you more oxygen and power to run away from danger or to face it and fight for your life , hence the term `` fight or flight . '' but when you do n't fight , or take flight , you face the plight .	what are the fight-or-flight chemicals called ?	what are the fight-or-flight chemicals called ?
but it was not long before a sample of this aquarium-developed super algae turned up in the mediterranean sea near the famed oceanographic museum of monaco . the marine biologist who found it believed that the museum had accidentally realeased it into the ocean along with aquarium waters , while museum directors claimed it had be carried into the area by ocean currents . regardless of how it ended up there , the non-native caulerpa multiplied rapidly , having no natural predators due to releasing a toxin that keeps fish away .	aquarium waters , fish and plants should never be put into natural ocean waters , bays , beaches or lagoons . aquarium contents should never be dumped :	aquarium waters , fish and plants should never be put into natural ocean waters , bays , beaches or lagoons . aquarium contents should never be dumped :
the key is to minimize the time wasted by the two slowest people by having them cross together . and because you 'll need to make a couple of return trips with the lantern , you 'll want to have the fastest people available to do so . so , you and the lab assistant quickly run across with the lantern , though you have to slow down a bit to match her pace .	why do you need to get the fastest person across first ?	why do you need to get the fastest person across first ?
by the mid-15th century , the church started to outlaw these performances . town charters required that any theater must be built outside the city wall . one of the first theaters was built like a larger version of a pageant , with tiers of gallery seating encircling a grassy area in front of the stage .	what were the reasons the drama had to be taken outside the city wall ?	what were the reasons the drama had to be taken outside the city wall ?
that is n't empty enough for scientists who work on experiments , like the large hadron collider , where particle beams need to circulate at close to the speed of light for up to ten hours without hitting any stray atoms . so how do they create a vacuum ? the lhc 's pipes are made of materials , like stainless steel , that do n't release any of their own molecules and are lined with a special coating to absorb stray gases . raising the temperature to 200 degrees celsius burns off any moisture , and hundreds of vacuum pumps take two weeks to trap enough gas and debris out of the pipes for the collider 's incredibly sensitive experiments .	what is the name of the coating of the beam pipes of the lhc at cern that permits the creation of an ultrahigh vacuum ?	what is the name of the coating of the beam pipes of the lhc at cern that permits the creation of an ultrahigh vacuum ?
the trick is to balance the need for photons with the loss of detail to still find their flowers . whether eyes are slow , enormous , shiny , or coarse , it 's the combination of these biological adaptations that gives nocturnal animals their unique visual powers . imagine what it might be like to witness through their eyes the world that wakes up when the sun goes down .	consider how the special night vision adaptations of nocturnal animals can be quite costly ( such as big eyes ) or limiting ( such as very slow photoreceptors ) .	consider how the special night vision adaptations of nocturnal animals can be quite costly ( such as big eyes ) or limiting ( such as very slow photoreceptors ) .
it 's known as basal cell nevus syndrome , and it predisposes people to certain cancers . the scientists proposed putting cyclopamine 's smoothened binding powers to good use as a treatment for these cancers , as long as the patient was n't pregnant . unfortunately , researchers eventually found that cyclopamine causes negative side effects , and its chemical properties make it difficult to work with . but they did discover that closely related molecules are safe and effective , and two of these drugs were approved in 2012 and 2015 as skin cancer medicines . when those farmers first saw the cyclops sheep , they could have chalked it up to a freak genetic mutation and walked away .	scientists discovered that compounds related to cyclopamine could be used to treat what kind of cancer ?	scientists discovered that compounds related to cyclopamine could be used to treat what kind of cancer ?
the winning explanation went something like this : suppose there 's a large cocktail party at the cern laboratory filled with particle physics researchers . this crowd of physicists represents the higgs field . if a tax collector entered the party , nobody would want to talk to them , and they could very easily cross the room to get to the bar .	the analogy likens the higgs field to a crowd in the room . in a crowd , there are spaces between individuals . from your understanding of the video , is there any analogous thing in the higgs field ? if so , what is it ? or is this just a limitation of the analogy ?	the analogy likens the higgs field to a crowd in the room . in a crowd , there are spaces between individuals . from your understanding of the video , is there any analogous thing in the higgs field ? if so , what is it ? or is this just a limitation of the analogy ?
it has no substance as water does . space is not a thing ; space is nothing . space is no thing .	empty space is nothing— “ no thing ” —in the same way as what else ?	empty space is nothing— “ no thing ” —in the same way as what else ?
in his essay , `` politics and the english language , '' he described techniques like using pretentious words to project authority , or making atrocities sound acceptable by burying them in euphemisms and convoluted sentence structures . but even more mundane abuses of language can affect the way we think about things . the words you see and hear in everyday advertising have been crafted to appeal to you and affect your behavior , as have the soundbites and talking points of political campaigns which rarely present the most nuanced perspective on the issues .	which of the following is one way that big brother and his regime do not exercise control of language ?	which of the following is one way that big brother and his regime do not exercise control of language ?
take , for instance , katniss everdeen and her battle with the capitol . can `` hunger games '' lead us into thinking about capitalism in a new way ? can it teach us a lesson about why the individual should not put herself before the group ? will `` uglies '' reflect the dangers of pursuing a perfect body and letting the media define what is beautiful ?	give an example of how a book really challenged the way you thought about an issue , society , an individual , or a group of people .	give an example of how a book really challenged the way you thought about an issue , society , an individual , or a group of people .
sharks have been celebrated as powerful gods by some native cultures . for example , fijians believe the shark god dakuwaqa , could protect fisherman from the dangers at sea .	which statement is false ?	which statement is false ?
matter and energy , can neither be created nor destroyed . the universe , to the best of our knowledge , is an isolated system . but before we get to that , let 's look at a much smaller and simpler one .	everything in the universe has ______	everything in the universe has ______
matter and energy , can neither be created nor destroyed . the universe , to the best of our knowledge , is an isolated system . but before we get to that , let 's look at a much smaller and simpler one .	explain why the universe must be an isolated system to obey the law of conservation of mass .	explain why the universe must be an isolated system to obey the law of conservation of mass .
though , why anybody would want to keep this a secret is beyond me . letting numbers stand for letters , you can put the numbers in a matrix and then an encryption key in another . multiply them together and you 've got a new encoded matrix .	encryption keys are necessary to :	encryption keys are necessary to :
now the thing is that the amount of particles in even small samples is tremendous . for example , if you have a balloon of any gas at zero degrees celcius , and at a pressure of one atmosphere , then you have precisely six hundred and two sextillion gas particles . that is , you have six with 23 zeros after it particles of gas in the container .	if you have a balloon filled with one mole of gas at zero degrees celsius at a pressure of one atmosphere , how many gas particles do you have ?	if you have a balloon filled with one mole of gas at zero degrees celsius at a pressure of one atmosphere , how many gas particles do you have ?
two subatomic particles entangled in a superposition state , where if one spins one way then the other must spin the other way , will do just that , even when there 's no way for information to pass from one particle to the other indicating which way to spin to obey the rules of entanglement . it 's not surprising then that entanglement is at the core of quantum information science , a growing field studying how to use the laws of the strange quantum world in our macroscopic world , like in quantum cryptography , so spies can send secure messages to each other , or quantum computing , for cracking secret codes . everyday physics may start to look a bit more like the strange quantum world .	quantum entanglement turns out to be useful in fields like quantum cryptography where scientists study ways in which information can be securely shared . can you think of a way that you could use entanglement to perform a useful task ?	quantum entanglement turns out to be useful in fields like quantum cryptography where scientists study ways in which information can be securely shared . can you think of a way that you could use entanglement to perform a useful task ?
two subatomic particles entangled in a superposition state , where if one spins one way then the other must spin the other way , will do just that , even when there 's no way for information to pass from one particle to the other indicating which way to spin to obey the rules of entanglement . it 's not surprising then that entanglement is at the core of quantum information science , a growing field studying how to use the laws of the strange quantum world in our macroscopic world , like in quantum cryptography , so spies can send secure messages to each other , or quantum computing , for cracking secret codes . everyday physics may start to look a bit more like the strange quantum world .	quantum entanglement is central to studying :	quantum entanglement is central to studying :
when i heat it , i get nothing . what we 're seeing is the shape memory wire changing phases when it gets hot . when the wire is cold , atoms are in a diagonal arrangement , like the movie theater seating , we talked about before .	what kind of invention would you make with shape memory materials if you could get it in any form you wanted ( like wire , sheets , big chunks , or any other way ) ?	what kind of invention would you make with shape memory materials if you could get it in any form you wanted ( like wire , sheets , big chunks , or any other way ) ?
when i heat it , i get nothing . what we 're seeing is the shape memory wire changing phases when it gets hot . when the wire is cold , atoms are in a diagonal arrangement , like the movie theater seating , we talked about before .	at cold temperatures , atoms in the shape memory wire are arranged in :	at cold temperatures , atoms in the shape memory wire are arranged in :
these are examples of animals that either lack a brain or have a very simple one . so an oyster may recoil when squirted with lemon juice , for instance , because of nociception . but with such a simple nervous system , it 's unlikely to experience the conscious part of pain .	nociception produces :	nociception produces :
villages increased in size , eventually becoming the first cities . cities are just one of the basic features of a civilization , the others include central government , system of writing , organized religion , art and architecture , urban planning of roads , bridges , and public works , social classes , and different jobs . developing expertise in various types of occupations allowed for innovative ways of doing things , producing new products , or making advancements in technology .	which one of the following is not a basic feature of a civilization ?	which one of the following is not a basic feature of a civilization ?
in this case , mine . after all , it 's always good to see things from other points of view , especially when the viewers are moving at different speeds . so long as the speeds are n't too high .	it is useful to do this and examine how the world looks to objects moving at different steady speeds because :	it is useful to do this and examine how the world looks to objects moving at different steady speeds because :
every chicken was once an egg , every oak tree an acorn , every frog a tadpole . the patch of mold on that old piece of bread in the back of your fridge , not so long ago that was one , solitary cell .	which of the following statements is true :	which of the following statements is true :
and as levels of cortisol rise , electric signals in your hippocampus , the part of the brain associated with learning , memories , and stress control , deteriorate . the hippocampus also inhibits the activity of the hpa axis , so when it weakens , so does your ability to control your stress . that 's not all , though .	where are the endocrine glands that control the hpa axis ?	where are the endocrine glands that control the hpa axis ?
poison has to be inhaled , ingested , or absorbed . venom has to be injected into a wound . chemically , venoms and poisons are both considered toxins , so a snake bite is venomous .	if you eat a puffer fish , are you likely to be poisoned or the victim of venom ? explain your answer .	if you eat a puffer fish , are you likely to be poisoned or the victim of venom ? explain your answer .
north america had its own species , such as horses , bears , and saber-toothed cats . over 20 million years , the shifting of the farallon and caribbean plates produced the central america volcanic arc , a peninsula connected to north america , with only a very narrow seaway separating it from south america . as these plates continued to surf the earth 's magma layer far beneath the pacific ocean floor , the caribbean plate migrated eastward , and about 15 million years ago , south america finally collided with this central american arc . this gradually closed the water connection between the pacific and the caribbean , creating a land bridge , which connected north america to south america .	twenty million years ago , south america had continental faunta :	twenty million years ago , south america had continental faunta :
and in languages like korean , thai , and chinese , pronouns can be dropped without any grammatical hints . speakers often would rather have the listener guess the pronoun from context than use the wrong one and risk being seen as rude . so if you 're ever working as a translator and come across this sentence without any context : `` you and you , no , not you , you , your job is to translate 'you ' for yourselves '' ... well , good luck .	gender , relative age , strength of friendship , the work relationship you might have … what other kinds of distinctions can you imagine drive speakers of languages with various “ yous ” to use a more formal or informal pronoun ? imagine you were crafting your own secret language : what types of pronouns would you create , and which people in your life would you use each one for ?	gender , relative age , strength of friendship , the work relationship you might have … what other kinds of distinctions can you imagine drive speakers of languages with various “ yous ” to use a more formal or informal pronoun ? imagine you were crafting your own secret language : what types of pronouns would you create , and which people in your life would you use each one for ?
and high masses of clouds can indicate mountainous islands . once navigators neared their destination , other clues , such as the flight patterns of birds , floating debris or vegetation , and types of fish in the area helped determine the proximity of land . for example , the manu-o-ku had a known flight range of 190 kilometers , and could be followed back to shore .	which is a good indicator of the proximity of land ?	which is a good indicator of the proximity of land ?
she may ask for up to three clues , but if she makes a wrong guess , or says anything else , she 'll be thrown back into the dungeon . for the first clue , the voice says the product of the three numbers is 36 . when zara asks for the second clue , it tells her the sum of the numbers is the same as the number of the hallway she entered .	before moving onto writing numbers as products of 3 natural numbers , we should be confident writing them as products of 2 natural numbers . try writing the numbers 60 and 108 as all possible products of 2 natural numbers .	before moving onto writing numbers as products of 3 natural numbers , we should be confident writing them as products of 2 natural numbers . try writing the numbers 60 and 108 as all possible products of 2 natural numbers .
she may ask for up to three clues , but if she makes a wrong guess , or says anything else , she 'll be thrown back into the dungeon . for the first clue , the voice says the product of the three numbers is 36 . when zara asks for the second clue , it tells her the sum of the numbers is the same as the number of the hallway she entered .	in the lesson , we wrote 36 as a product combination of 3 natural numbers . what is the best way to write down all the possible products and make sure we haven ’ t missed any ?	in the lesson , we wrote 36 as a product combination of 3 natural numbers . what is the best way to write down all the possible products and make sure we haven ’ t missed any ?
she may ask for up to three clues , but if she makes a wrong guess , or says anything else , she 'll be thrown back into the dungeon . for the first clue , the voice says the product of the three numbers is 36 . when zara asks for the second clue , it tells her the sum of the numbers is the same as the number of the hallway she entered .	the number 18 is written as a product of 3 natural numbers . based on the information provided in the video , how many such unordered products are possible ? ( a*b*c and b*c*a to be considered as the same product )	the number 18 is written as a product of 3 natural numbers . based on the information provided in the video , how many such unordered products are possible ? ( a*b*c and b*c*a to be considered as the same product )
although tsunamis are commonly known as tidal waves , they 're actually unrelated to the tidal activity caused by the gravitational forces of the sun and moon . in many ways , tsunamis are just larger versions of regular waves . they have a trough and a crest , and consist not of moving water , but the movement of energy through water .	which of these is not a potential cause of tsunamis ?	which of these is not a potential cause of tsunamis ?
although tsunamis are commonly known as tidal waves , they 're actually unrelated to the tidal activity caused by the gravitational forces of the sun and moon . in many ways , tsunamis are just larger versions of regular waves . they have a trough and a crest , and consist not of moving water , but the movement of energy through water .	what are the ways in which tsunamis cause destruction ?	what are the ways in which tsunamis cause destruction ?
although tsunamis are commonly known as tidal waves , they 're actually unrelated to the tidal activity caused by the gravitational forces of the sun and moon . in many ways , tsunamis are just larger versions of regular waves . they have a trough and a crest , and consist not of moving water , but the movement of energy through water .	what is our best bet for dealing with tsunamis and why ?	what is our best bet for dealing with tsunamis and why ?
the first sign we encounter says , `` the park closes at 6 p.m. '' after checking with a friendly park official that the park does , indeed , close at 6 , we can confirm that this statement is a true constative . nearby , there 's a man on a bench with a newspaper , and the headline reads , `` heatwave ! '' however , the sky is cloudy and it feels quite chilly . today 's headline is a false constative as it has proven to be incorrect .	if the headline reads , `` heatwave ! , '' but the sky is cloudy and it feels cold outside , what best describes the headline ?	if the headline reads , `` heatwave ! , '' but the sky is cloudy and it feels cold outside , what best describes the headline ?
depression is the leading cause of disability in the world . in the united states , close to 10 % of adults struggle with depression . but because it 's a mental illness , it can be a lot harder to understand than , say , high cholesterol .	what percentage of the united states population suffers from depression ?	what percentage of the united states population suffers from depression ?
i ’ m quite pleased with that . so , basically i ’ ve got another fluorine cylinder filled up from the roof with about 5 atmospheres of fluorine in it . so this is now going to release the fluorine . and what i ’ ve got in this demonstration here is just a scouring pad .	fluorine is the best example of an element that can attract electrons towards itself . what is the name of this chemical property ?	fluorine is the best example of an element that can attract electrons towards itself . what is the name of this chemical property ?
i ’ m quite pleased with that . so , basically i ’ ve got another fluorine cylinder filled up from the roof with about 5 atmospheres of fluorine in it . so this is now going to release the fluorine . and what i ’ ve got in this demonstration here is just a scouring pad .	the containers used to store fluorine are made from which material ?	the containers used to store fluorine are made from which material ?
growing up in stratford was a wonderful thing as a child . [ children talking ] the canals were always filled with water . we could spend a whole day at the canal trying to catch crawdads , hunting for frogs , fishing .	one of the main characters in the film described that before the drought , the canals were always filled with water . kids in the community would engage in outdoor activities all day by the canals . which of the following activities is not mentioned by one of the main characters in the film ?	one of the main characters in the film described that before the drought , the canals were always filled with water . kids in the community would engage in outdoor activities all day by the canals . which of the following activities is not mentioned by one of the main characters in the film ?
in fact , the word asteroid means star-like . you can tell the difference between stars and asteroids by the way they move across the sky . of course , piazzi knew none of that at the time , just that he had discovered something new .	looking through a telescope , you can distinguish between asteroids and stars :	looking through a telescope , you can distinguish between asteroids and stars :
this is called herd immunity . the flu shot ca n't give you the flu . it contains an inactivated virus that is n't capable of making you sick .	can the flu shot give you the flu ?	can the flu shot give you the flu ?
you 're always asking something where you expect the answer to be yes , right ? like , you 're trying to get at it . but , instead you want to get the no 's .	how are people trying to solve the question ? is there anything that you would have done differently to solve the problem ?	how are people trying to solve the question ? is there anything that you would have done differently to solve the problem ?
in the 17th century , british colonists arriving in the new world found a different , but very similar looking , species of mistletoe . they applied it to these tales of magic , fertility , and love , spreading the mistletoe-hanging tradition from europe into america . by the 18th century , people in britain had turned this into a christmas tradition , but this custom comes down to more than just human imagination . all of it was inspired by the plant 's intriguing biology .	mistletoes are one good example of a pagan tradition that survived throughout time . can you think of any other common tradition with similar ancient roots ?	mistletoes are one good example of a pagan tradition that survived throughout time . can you think of any other common tradition with similar ancient roots ?
the geography of our planet is in flux . each continent has ricocheted around the globe on one or more tectonic plates , changing quite dramatically with time . today , we 'll focus on north america and how its familiar landscape and features emerged over hundreds of millions of years .	north america is one of seven major tectonic plates in addition to ten minor plates that cover earth ’ s surface . can you name each one ?	north america is one of seven major tectonic plates in addition to ten minor plates that cover earth ’ s surface . can you name each one ?
it 's no surprise that you 'll find dogs doing this breath often to cool down on a hot day . when we sleep at night , the medulla center of the brain makes sure that we keep breathing . lucky for us we do n't have to think about it .	which part of the brain controls our breathing when we sleep ?	which part of the brain controls our breathing when we sleep ?
a high , whispy cirrus cloud that descended and spread into a sheet was named cirrostratus , while groups of fluffy cumulus clouds that joined up and spread were named stratocumulus . howard identified seven cloud types , but these have since been expanded to ten , cloud nine being the towering cumulonimbus thunder cloud , which is probably why being on cloud nine means to be on top of the world . howard 's classification had an immediate international impact .	which famous poet wrote a poem called 'the cloud ' :	which famous poet wrote a poem called 'the cloud ' :
a high , whispy cirrus cloud that descended and spread into a sheet was named cirrostratus , while groups of fluffy cumulus clouds that joined up and spread were named stratocumulus . howard identified seven cloud types , but these have since been expanded to ten , cloud nine being the towering cumulonimbus thunder cloud , which is probably why being on cloud nine means to be on top of the world . howard 's classification had an immediate international impact .	the new cloud names became very popular with poets and artists during the romantic period . why do you think this was ?	the new cloud names became very popular with poets and artists during the romantic period . why do you think this was ?
or there 's the non-euclidean work of bernhard riemann in the 1850s , which einstein used in the model for general relativity a century later . here 's an even bigger jump : mathematical knot theory , first developed around 1771 to describe the geometry of position , was used in the late 20th century to explain how dna unravels itself during the replication process . it may even provide key explanations for string theory .	what centuries old mathematical theory re-emerged in the 20th century to explain how dna unravels itself during replication ?	what centuries old mathematical theory re-emerged in the 20th century to explain how dna unravels itself during replication ?
we probably wo n't know until we have a much more intimate understanding of the brain . the good news is there are effective treatments for ocd , including medications , which increase serotonin in the brain by limiting its reabsorption by brain cells , behavioral therapy that gradually desensitizes patients to their anxieties , and in some cases , electroconvulsive therapy , or surgery , when ocd does n't respond to other forms of treatment . knowing that your own brain is lying to you while not being able to resist its commands can be agonizing .	conducting in vivo exposures in behavior therapy can often be difficult for those with ocd . can you think of some of the barriers to treatment ? are there other ways that individuals can face their fears ?	conducting in vivo exposures in behavior therapy can often be difficult for those with ocd . can you think of some of the barriers to treatment ? are there other ways that individuals can face their fears ?
all the elements in the periodic table have a different affinity for electrons . elements like oxygen and fluorine really , really want electrons , while elements like hydrogen and lithium do n't attract them as strongly . an atom 's relative greed for electrons is called its electronegativity .	if the spatulae weren ’ t shaped like spatulas , would it be better for them to be shaped like spheres or cubes ? why ?	if the spatulae weren ’ t shaped like spatulas , would it be better for them to be shaped like spheres or cubes ? why ?
she was taken as a captive to a hidatsa village in present-day north dakota . then , she was sold to a french canadian fur trapper named toussaint charbonneau . within a year or so , she was pregnant with her first child .	by trade , toussaint charbonneau was a :	by trade , toussaint charbonneau was a :
in order to answer this question , we need to know the fundamental counting principle . the fundamental counting principle states that if there are a possible outcomes for one event , and b possible outcomes for another event , then there are a times b ways to pair the outcomes . clearly this works for a two-question true/ false quiz .	if there are a possible outcomes for one event and b possible outcomes for another event , then there are a times b ways to pair the outcomes . what is this known as ?	if there are a possible outcomes for one event and b possible outcomes for another event , then there are a times b ways to pair the outcomes . what is this known as ?
they tried to make this different infinities irrelevant , to make mathematics work without them somehow . cantor was even vilified personally , and it got so bad for him that he suffered severe depression , and spent the last half of his life in and out of mental institutions . but eventually , his ideas won out .	what happened to cantor during the last half of his life ?	what happened to cantor during the last half of his life ?
three : each house contains a different animal , one of which is the fish . after a few hours of expert sleuthing , you gather some clues . it may look like a lot of information , but there 's a clear logical path to the solution .	which pair of clues below did not require any logic at all ?	which pair of clues below did not require any logic at all ?
by comparing relationships between different places , you can see what connections they have . for example , pick two cities . look at the highway connecting them .	which of the following is an example of migration ?	which of the following is an example of migration ?
so , in addition to the three main cloud types , he introduced a series of intermediate and compound types as a way of including the regular transitions that occur among clouds . a high , whispy cirrus cloud that descended and spread into a sheet was named cirrostratus , while groups of fluffy cumulus clouds that joined up and spread were named stratocumulus . howard identified seven cloud types , but these have since been expanded to ten , cloud nine being the towering cumulonimbus thunder cloud , which is probably why being on cloud nine means to be on top of the world .	the name 'cirrus ' means :	the name 'cirrus ' means :
there 's a prevailing attitude that art does n't matter in the real world . but the study of art can enhance our perception and our ability to translate to others what we see .	how can analyzing a painting help solve a real world problem ?	how can analyzing a painting help solve a real world problem ?
the five lives outweigh one , even if achieving that outcome requires condemning someone to death . but people do n't always take the utilitarian view , which we can see by changing the trolley problem a bit . this time , you 're standing on a bridge over the track as the runaway trolley approaches .	in surveys , how do people say they would respond to the classic trolley problem ?	in surveys , how do people say they would respond to the classic trolley problem ?
having one type , such as colored hearing , gives you a 50 % chance of having a second , third , or fourth type . one in 90 among us experience graphemes , the written elements of language , like letters , numerals , and punctuation marks , as saturated with color . some even have gender or personality .	one in ninety synesthetes experience _________ , which are the written elements of language completely saturated in color ( sometimes with gender and personality ) .	one in ninety synesthetes experience _________ , which are the written elements of language completely saturated in color ( sometimes with gender and personality ) .
in rare occasions , this can even lead to deliberate fabrication , such as in 2013 , when a researcher spiked rabbit blood with human blood to give false evidence that his hiv vaccine was working . the publish or perish mindset can also compromise academic journals ' traditional peer-review processes which are safety checks where experts examine submitted papers for potential shortcomings . the current system , which might involve only one or two reviewers , can be woefully ineffective .	what does the phrase “ publish or perish ” refer to ?	what does the phrase “ publish or perish ” refer to ?
in rare occasions , this can even lead to deliberate fabrication , such as in 2013 , when a researcher spiked rabbit blood with human blood to give false evidence that his hiv vaccine was working . the publish or perish mindset can also compromise academic journals ' traditional peer-review processes which are safety checks where experts examine submitted papers for potential shortcomings . the current system , which might involve only one or two reviewers , can be woefully ineffective .	which of the following is not at least a partial potential remedy for irreproducibility ?	which of the following is not at least a partial potential remedy for irreproducibility ?
for instance , pavlopetri , the oldest known sunken city , was built on the southern coastline of greece 5,000 years ago . it 's an example of a city that was submerged due to what is called isostatic sea level change . 18,000 years ago when the ice age ended , glaciers began melting and the sea level rose globally until about 5,000 years ago .	isostatic sea level change affects :	isostatic sea level change affects :
for instance , pavlopetri , the oldest known sunken city , was built on the southern coastline of greece 5,000 years ago . it 's an example of a city that was submerged due to what is called isostatic sea level change . 18,000 years ago when the ice age ended , glaciers began melting and the sea level rose globally until about 5,000 years ago .	explain how multiple natural phenomena ( earthquake , tsunami , liquefaction , sea level change ) can combine to the submergence of a city .	explain how multiple natural phenomena ( earthquake , tsunami , liquefaction , sea level change ) can combine to the submergence of a city .
well , each page of instructions has a few pages of nonsense inserted that have to be taken out before we end up with something useful . the parts we throw out , we call introns . the instructions we keep , we call exons .	explain the difference between exons and introns . why do you think introns exist ?	explain the difference between exons and introns . why do you think introns exist ?
in this short video , we 're going to show you how we use two different animation techniques , both rotoscoping and traditional hand-drawn animation in the ted-ed lesson , `` miss gayle 's 5 steps to slam poetry : a lesson of transformation . '' a poetry slam is a competition in which poets are judged on their poems , often for qualities of emotional power and lyrical resonance .	how is traditional animation different from rotoscoping ?	how is traditional animation different from rotoscoping ?
under the new constitution , each state was given a number of electors . who would cast a vote for two names . the man with the most votes would be president , the second-place finisher was vice president .	imagine you lived during the time of the first presidential election . how different do you think things would have been for you ? would you have cared more or less about the outcome ? why ? would you have been able to vote ? knowing what you know about george washington , would you have voted for him ?	imagine you lived during the time of the first presidential election . how different do you think things would have been for you ? would you have cared more or less about the outcome ? why ? would you have been able to vote ? knowing what you know about george washington , would you have voted for him ?
how can we prepare , then , for a future that will be as magical to us as our present would appear to someone from the 19th century ? we may think our modern technology and advanced data analysis techniques might allow us to predict the future with much more accuracy than our 19th century counterpart , and rightly so . however , it 's also true that our technological progress has brought with it new increasingly complex and unpredictable challenges .	why do you think is it so difficult for us to accurately forecast social changes in advance ?	why do you think is it so difficult for us to accurately forecast social changes in advance ?
this dark energy does n't behave like any other substance we know at all and acts more like anti-gravity force . we say that it has a gravitational pressure , which ordinary matter and dark matter do not . instead of pulling the universe together , as we would expect gravity to do , the universe appears to be expanding apart at an ever-increasing rate .	why do we call dark matter ‘ dark ’ ? because it ________ .	why do we call dark matter ‘ dark ’ ? because it ________ .
this dark energy does n't behave like any other substance we know at all and acts more like anti-gravity force . we say that it has a gravitational pressure , which ordinary matter and dark matter do not . instead of pulling the universe together , as we would expect gravity to do , the universe appears to be expanding apart at an ever-increasing rate .	when we describe dark matter , we often say that it is ‘ weakly interacting ’ or ‘ collisionless ’ ? dark matter exists in our solar system . do you think that there is dark matter in the room you are sitting in now ? why/why not ?	when we describe dark matter , we often say that it is ‘ weakly interacting ’ or ‘ collisionless ’ ? dark matter exists in our solar system . do you think that there is dark matter in the room you are sitting in now ? why/why not ?
he was very short ( five feet three inches ) and frequently described himself as ugly . by the 60 ’ s sartre was a household name in both europe and the united states , and so was his chosen philosophy , existentialism . sartre is famous principally for his book being and nothingness ( 1943 ) , which enhanced his reputation not so much because people could understand his ideas but because they could n't quite .	what was the name of sartre 's chosen philosophy ?	what was the name of sartre 's chosen philosophy ?
you are just one of many creatures at the bottom of the ocean who learn too late to appreciate the power of bioluminescence . bioluminescence refers to the ability of certain living things to create light . the human body can make stuff like ear wax and toe nails , but these organisms can turn parts of their body into glow sticks .	the production and emission of light by a living organism is referred to as :	the production and emission of light by a living organism is referred to as :
you are just one of many creatures at the bottom of the ocean who learn too late to appreciate the power of bioluminescence . bioluminescence refers to the ability of certain living things to create light . the human body can make stuff like ear wax and toe nails , but these organisms can turn parts of their body into glow sticks .	list several advantages of light created by living things .	list several advantages of light created by living things .
but for musical rhythm , a steady string of repeating single beats is not enough . for that , we need at least one opposing beat with a different sound , which can be the unstressed off beat or the accented back beat . there are several ways to make these beats distinct , whether by using high and low drums , or long and short beats .	taking the 4-layer 8-beat circle , how might you choose to designate the layers for different instruments ? try making a sketch !	taking the 4-layer 8-beat circle , how might you choose to designate the layers for different instruments ? try making a sketch !
and if it 's difficult , or frustrating , or funny , that 's because life is all that , and more . responding to some criticism of `` ulysses , '' and there was a lot when it was first published , joyce said that if `` ulysses '' is n't worth reading , then life is n't worth living .	in what year is ulysses set ?	in what year is ulysses set ?
and because i 'm in comments usually , i get to participate with you , and you find this whether it 's world history , or mathematics , or science , or whatever it is . you also see young people using the tools and the sort of genres of the internet in order to create places for intellectual engagement instead of the ironic detachment that maybe most of us associate with memes and other internet conventions , you know `` got bored - invented calculus '' , or here 's honey boo boo criticizing industrial capitalism [ `` liberal capitalism is not at all the good of humanity . quite the contrary ; it is the vehicle of savage destructive nihilism '' ] .	john green stated that `` young people [ are ] using the tools and the sort of genres of the internet in order to create places for intellectual engagement . '' what are some ways that you have engaged with a learning community on the internet ?	john green stated that `` young people [ are ] using the tools and the sort of genres of the internet in order to create places for intellectual engagement . '' what are some ways that you have engaged with a learning community on the internet ?
a time range can be carefully chosen to exclude the impact of a major event right outside it . and picking specific data points can hide important changes in between . even when there 's nothing wrong with the graph itself , leaving out relevant data can give a misleading impression . this chart of how many people watch the super bowl each year makes it look like the event 's popularity is exploding .	when looking at the graph that presents data on truck reliability , which statement is true ?	when looking at the graph that presents data on truck reliability , which statement is true ?
no hooves ! '' since then , photography has found its way into all aspects of math and science . it enhances our understanding of a world we thought we could already see , but it 's one which we really need help to see a little better .	can you distinguish your memories of an event from your memories of pictures taken at that event ? for example , can you remember a childhood vacation differently to photos you may have seen since , or do they become your memory of it ?	can you distinguish your memories of an event from your memories of pictures taken at that event ? for example , can you remember a childhood vacation differently to photos you may have seen since , or do they become your memory of it ?
in reality , they do collide . finally , gases have energy that is proportional to the temperature . the higher the temperature , the higher the energy the gases have .	if you were given oxygen ( molecular mass = 18 amu ) and hydrogen ( molecular mass = 1 amu ) at the same temperature and pressure , which has more energy ? which gas would be moving faster ? why ? how is this different than energy ?	if you were given oxygen ( molecular mass = 18 amu ) and hydrogen ( molecular mass = 1 amu ) at the same temperature and pressure , which has more energy ? which gas would be moving faster ? why ? how is this different than energy ?
so how do these subatomic particle accelerators work ? well , they use electric fields . electric fields make charged particles move in the same way that gravity will pull a dropped baseball .	you ’ ve heard that electric fields are required to increase the speed of subatomic particles , yet most of a circular accelerator is surrounded by magnets . why do physicists not simply put electric fields around the entire ring ?	you ’ ve heard that electric fields are required to increase the speed of subatomic particles , yet most of a circular accelerator is surrounded by magnets . why do physicists not simply put electric fields around the entire ring ?
majestic whirlpools of stars , they rotate in a stately and predictable dance . the fact that we see many billions of them in our telescopes tells us they are both common and stable . it is perhaps surprising that it is relatively easy to understand the inner workings of these cosmic pinwheels .	the fact that we can see so many spiral galaxies using our telescopes tells us that they are both :	the fact that we can see so many spiral galaxies using our telescopes tells us that they are both :
despite sporadic unrest , their reign remained secure until 1422 , when henry v 's death in a military campaign left an infant henry vi as king . weak-willed and dominated by advisors , henry was eventually convinced to marry margaret of anjou to gain french support . margaret was beautiful , ambitious , and ruthless in persecuting any threat to her power , and she distrusted richard of york , most of all . york had been the king 's close advisor and loyal general , but was increasingly sidelined by the queen , who promoted her favorite supporters , like the earls of suffolk and somerset .	what were some reasons for the conflict between richard of york and margaret of anjou ?	what were some reasons for the conflict between richard of york and margaret of anjou ?
they ferment this undigested food to produce a wide range of compounds , such as short-chain fatty acids and , of course , gases . hydrogen and carbon dioxide are the most common gaseous products of bacterial fermentation , and are odorless . some people also produce methane due to specific microbes present in their gut .	the most common products of gastrointestinal fermentation are :	the most common products of gastrointestinal fermentation are :
and while no human remains have been found inside , grave pits do indicate that many workers died from accidents , hunger and exhaustion . the wall was formidable but not invincible . both genghis and his son khublai khan managed to surmount the wall during the mongol invasion of the 13th century .	true or false : the great wall is one long wall that spans 100,000 miles .	true or false : the great wall is one long wall that spans 100,000 miles .
that 's why . for the next 150 years , franklin 's theory was used to develop many more ideas and discoveries , all using the vocabulary he invented . this scientific inquiry brought forth technological advances and eventually , scientists were able to take a closer look at the electric fluid itself .	in the lesson , you saw how benjamin franklin used analogies to describe parts of his theory and the equipment he used . can you think of any other analogies ( or metaphors , or similes ) used in scientific vocabulary ?	in the lesson , you saw how benjamin franklin used analogies to describe parts of his theory and the equipment he used . can you think of any other analogies ( or metaphors , or similes ) used in scientific vocabulary ?
black widow spiders have a disposable penis tip that breaks off inside the vagina blocking the attempts of his rivals , and bed bug males bypass a female 's genitalia altogether using a syringe-like penis to inject sperm cells directly into her belly . not to be outdone , females have evolved their own countermeasures . in some bed bug species , the females have evolved an entirely new set of genitalia on their right hand flanks where the males usually pierce them .	how do male bedbugs fertilize females ?	how do male bedbugs fertilize females ?
the fundamental counting principle states that if there are a possible outcomes for one event , and b possible outcomes for another event , then there are a times b ways to pair the outcomes . clearly this works for a two-question true/ false quiz . there are two different answers you could write for the first question , and two different answers you could write for the second question .	what is the probability of getting a perfect score on a ten-question true-false quiz by randomly guessing ?	what is the probability of getting a perfect score on a ten-question true-false quiz by randomly guessing ?
we 've obtained the same infinite series as we had for the time of zeno 's journey . as we construct more and more blue pieces , to use the math jargon , as we take the limit as n tends to infinity , the entire square becomes covered with blue . but the area of the square is just one unit , and so the infinite sum must equal one .	at which step of the argument did we “ take the limit as it tends to infinity ” ?	at which step of the argument did we “ take the limit as it tends to infinity ” ?
in fact , when the cylinders get to the bottom , all the energy that we put in will have left . so how much power does the clock use ? that is , how many joules of energy per second leave the clock if it takes 5 days for the cylinders to return to their original position ?	the work done to lift the metal cylinders while winding the clock is the same as the work done by the force of gravity lowering the cylinders while the clock runs . why is the power to run the clock so much less than the power to wind the clock ?	the work done to lift the metal cylinders while winding the clock is the same as the work done by the force of gravity lowering the cylinders while the clock runs . why is the power to run the clock so much less than the power to wind the clock ?
if the performative does n't meet these conditions , then it does n't have the power to denote action . but just because a performative meets its conditions and is clearly stated , does n't mean that it 's implicitly followed . back at the pool , a rowdy group of teenagers races to the high dive .	just because a performative meets the felicity conditions and is clearly stated , it does n't mean it 's implicitly followed .	just because a performative meets the felicity conditions and is clearly stated , it does n't mean it 's implicitly followed .
it was n't until 1884 that dr . snow 's efforts were vindicated by dr. robert koch , who isolated the cholera-causing bacterium . koch developed a technique to grow pure cultures , and through a series of experiments , definitively proved that a specific bacterium directly cause disease .	which famous scientist isolated the cholera causing bacterium and performed experiments that helped confirm germ theory ?	which famous scientist isolated the cholera causing bacterium and performed experiments that helped confirm germ theory ?
various tribes in africa and some australian aborigines and tahitians are among groups that do n't seem to kiss , they probably just think that we 're super weird . so some believe that kissing is a learned behavior that evolved from regurgitation . oh yeah .	compare the theory that kissing is learned to the theory that kissing is instinctual .	compare the theory that kissing is learned to the theory that kissing is instinctual .
in order to understand how these can all be light , we 'll need to know a thing or two about what light is . light is electromagnetic radiation that acts like both a wave and a particle . light waves are kind of like waves on the ocean .	light is ________ that behaves like a wave and a particle .	light is ________ that behaves like a wave and a particle .
but then , he started to realize something . in the commercials and on the boxes for the easy bake oven , hasbro marketed them specifically to girls . and the way that they did this was they would only feature girls on the boxes or in the commercials , and there would be flowery prints all over the ovens , and it would be in bright pink and purple .	as of december 2012 , what percentage of easy bake oven commercials were targeted towards both genders :	as of december 2012 , what percentage of easy bake oven commercials were targeted towards both genders :
in old norse , oddi also came to mean any number indivisible by two . and odda mathr , the odd man , was used to describe the unpaired man whose vote could break a tie . though the english never called a triangle odd , they did borrow the odd number and the odd man . and finally , in the 16th century , the notion of the odd man out gave rise to our modern meaning peculiar .	how can shapes be used to illustrate the concepts of even and odd ?	how can shapes be used to illustrate the concepts of even and odd ?
myth one : repetitive or ritualistic behaviors are synonymous with ocd . as its name suggests , obsessive compulsive disorder has two aspects : the intrusive thoughts , images , or impulses , known as obsessions , and the behavioral compulsions people engage in to relieve the anxiety the obsessions cause . the kinds of actions that people often associate with ocd , like excessive hand washing , or checking things repeatedly , may be examples of obsessive or compulsive tendencies that many of us exhibit from time to time .	all of the following are types of obsessions except ?	all of the following are types of obsessions except ?
and depicted here is a scene from his book of the dead , a 78-foot papyrus scroll designed to help him attain immortality . such funerary texts were originally written only for pharaohs , but with time , the egyptians came to believe regular people could also reach the afterlife if they succeeded in the passage . ani 's epic journey begins with his death .	which form of work must people undertake in the afterlife ?	which form of work must people undertake in the afterlife ?
there are many solutions . the best approach for each fishery must be considered based on science , respect for the local communities that rely on the ocean , and for fish as wild animals . and then the rules must be enforced .	what can communities do to ensure their local waters are fished sustainably ?	what can communities do to ensure their local waters are fished sustainably ?
then circumstances change , and those sad feelings disappear . clinical depression is different . it 's a medical disorder , and it wo n't go away just because you want it to .	depression is unlike other major medical disorders in that it is intangible . in what ways does depression manifest itself ?	depression is unlike other major medical disorders in that it is intangible . in what ways does depression manifest itself ?
then circumstances change , and those sad feelings disappear . clinical depression is different . it 's a medical disorder , and it wo n't go away just because you want it to .	what percentage of women experience postpartum depression after giving birth ? ( hint : answer in dig deeper section )	what percentage of women experience postpartum depression after giving birth ? ( hint : answer in dig deeper section )
science is based on observation . unfortunately , we can not observe gases with our eyes -- they 're too small . we have to use our other senses to make observations and draw conclusions .	why can ’ t we observe gases with our eyes ?	why can ’ t we observe gases with our eyes ?
probably . beautiful language ? perhaps .	if non-tactile language is used in fiction :	if non-tactile language is used in fiction :
we should n't tear ourselves apart for not managing to be to what were in truth , awesome odds . tough , self-critical people do n't allow themselves the indulgence of believing in luck . they take responsibility for everything .	tough , self-critical people often think that believing in luck is self-indulgent . why ? and can you give an example of how luck may play a role in a person 's ability to achieve their goals ?	tough , self-critical people often think that believing in luck is self-indulgent . why ? and can you give an example of how luck may play a role in a person 's ability to achieve their goals ?
and the pop-up book idea was born . ( music ) to make your own pop-up book , you 'll need some basic paper tools , such as scissors , an x-acto knife , glue , double-sided scotch tape , a ruler , a bone folder or other creasing tool , and , of course , some paper . for this lesson , we first determined the visual style by making illustrations and deciding on the overall design , colors , shapes and elements we wanted on each page , or spread .	what are some essential tools you need to be a paper engineer ?	what are some essential tools you need to be a paper engineer ?
the foodie posting photos of every plate of lasagna he orders , the iranian blogger describing the shooting death of nedā āghā-soltān . authentic narrative is the glue that connects people , providing a compelling reason to keep reading . it makes the personal universal , transcends the individual , and makes a story timeless and humanistic . how , as a journalist , do you ask the questions that yield this type of narrative ?	why do you believe that personal , humanistic narrative leaves a deep impression on the reader ?	why do you believe that personal , humanistic narrative leaves a deep impression on the reader ?
about 2.5 billion years ago was a mass extinction of virtually all life on earth , which barely spared the cyanobacteria . geologists call this the great oxygenation event , or even the oxygen catastrophe . that was n't the only problem .	the great oxygenation event was caused by a change in oxygen composition in the atmosphere , where the amount of oxygen :	the great oxygenation event was caused by a change in oxygen composition in the atmosphere , where the amount of oxygen :
the collapse of a star before it explodes in a supernova , or a very dense neutron stars colliding . every time we create a new tool to look at space , we discover something we did n't expect , something that might revolutionize our understanding of the universe . ligo 's no different .	every time humans have observed the universe in a new way , we ’ ve always discovered something unexpected . research other unexpected things that were discovered when we looked at the universe in a new way ( not with gravitational waves ) ?	every time humans have observed the universe in a new way , we ’ ve always discovered something unexpected . research other unexpected things that were discovered when we looked at the universe in a new way ( not with gravitational waves ) ?
in fact , many scientific advances have occurred when serendipitous failures in one field address the constraints of another . when scientist alexander fleming mistakenly contaminated a petri dish in the lab , it led to the discovery of the first antibiotic , penicillin . the same is true of synthetic dye , plastic , and gunpowder .	alexander fleming is famous for mistakenly discovering which of the following ?	alexander fleming is famous for mistakenly discovering which of the following ?
if you 're a particle physicist , you want to know what happens when we smash things together . and dark matter is no exception . well , how do we do this ?	dark matter is difficult to detect directly because ________ .	dark matter is difficult to detect directly because ________ .
if you 're a particle physicist , you want to know what happens when we smash things together . and dark matter is no exception . well , how do we do this ?	challenge question : dark matter gravitates . if there were less dark matter in the universe ________ .	challenge question : dark matter gravitates . if there were less dark matter in the universe ________ .
so now , let 's think about how power operates . there are three laws of power worth examining . law number one : power is never static .	create a table differentiating between the three laws of power .	create a table differentiating between the three laws of power .
for most of us , two degrees celsius is a tiny difference in temperature , not even enough to make you crack a window . but scientists have warned that as co2 levels in the atmosphere rise , an increase in the earth 's temperature by even this amount can lead to catastrophic effects all over the world . how can such a small measurable change in one factor lead to massive and unpredictable changes in other factors ? the answer lies in the concept of a mathematical tipping point , which we can understand through the familiar game of billiards . the basic rule of billiard motion is that a ball will go straight until it hits a wall , then bounce off at an angle equal to its incoming angle .	create a visual representation of what is meant by a tipping point . include carbon dioxide levels , temperature and the results of these changes .	create a visual representation of what is meant by a tipping point . include carbon dioxide levels , temperature and the results of these changes .
to answer this , we first need a way of dealing with rather small numbers , or in some cases extremely large numbers . this leads us to the concept of logarithms . well , what are logarithms ?	mathematics is more than just something you learn in school . it can help us know about our bodies and our surroundings . in the video , kelly talks about using logarithms to determine what makes our eyes red after opening them underwater . what are other examples of ways mathematics can help us figure out these kinds of problems ?	mathematics is more than just something you learn in school . it can help us know about our bodies and our surroundings . in the video , kelly talks about using logarithms to determine what makes our eyes red after opening them underwater . what are other examples of ways mathematics can help us figure out these kinds of problems ?
to answer this , we first need a way of dealing with rather small numbers , or in some cases extremely large numbers . this leads us to the concept of logarithms . well , what are logarithms ?	how can logarithms help us figure out why our eyes turn red underwater ?	how can logarithms help us figure out why our eyes turn red underwater ?
after all , if you fill your stomach with water , you wo n't feel full for long . your brain also takes into account chemical messengers in the form of hormones produced by endocrine cells throughout your digestive system . these respond to the presence of specific nutrients in your gut and bloodstream , which gradually increase as you digest your food .	what can act as a signal for the release of satiety hormones from endocrine cells ?	what can act as a signal for the release of satiety hormones from endocrine cells ?
then take out the pouch and rinse it with clean water . take out the seeds and , as before , spray them with bleach so they do n't get moldy . if you try all of these methods , you will see that some of them are more effective than others , and some work best for different types of plants that have harder or thicker coats .	what is the purpose of spraying the seeds with bleach ?	what is the purpose of spraying the seeds with bleach ?
but there 's a surprising result . the epigenetic changes caused by one single mother rat were passed down to many generations of rats after her . in other words , the results of these actions were inheritable .	what are epigenetic changes ?	what are epigenetic changes ?
all of this will help us understand whether the universe is teeming with life or , whether indeed , it 's just us . either answer , in its own way , is awe-inspiring , because even if we are alone , the fact that we think and dream , and ask these questions might yet turn out to be one of the most important facts about the universe . and i have one more piece of good news for you .	we ’ re either alone in the universe , or we ’ re not . anderson observes , “ either answer is awe-inspiring. ” which answer would you prefer , and why ?	we ’ re either alone in the universe , or we ’ re not . anderson observes , “ either answer is awe-inspiring. ” which answer would you prefer , and why ?
for example , let 's take gabriella , whose family immigrates to the us from peru when she 's two-years old . as a compound bilingual , gabriella develops two linguistic codes simultaneously , with a single set of concepts , learning both english and spanish as she begins to process the world around her . her teenage brother , on the other hand , might be a coordinate bilingual , working with two sets of concepts , learning english in school , while continuing to speak spanish at home and with friends .	a person who learns french and english simultaneously from childhood onward would be considered which type of bilingual ?	a person who learns french and english simultaneously from childhood onward would be considered which type of bilingual ?
there are all sorts of shells of molluscs and the like where they use calcium carbonate from the sea water , getting the calcium out , reacting with carbon dioxide and making their shells . and because shells are made out of calcium carbonate , which dissolves in acid , people are quite worried about the effects of global warming . not the heating up but when the c02 dissolves into the sea it makes it more acid , so in principle shells could start dissolving and some molluscs may not be able to survive because they just can ’ t make their shells .	what could be a terrible consequence of global warming for shellfish ( molluscs ) ?	what could be a terrible consequence of global warming for shellfish ( molluscs ) ?
all elements were formed and released into space by exploding stars . for centuries , humans have tried to discover what makes up the world around them . little did they know that all the pieces they needed were right under their noses .	some discoveries take centuries and some happen in an instant . research a notable discovery in a field that most interests you and explain how it unfolded .	some discoveries take centuries and some happen in an instant . research a notable discovery in a field that most interests you and explain how it unfolded .
if you line up the entire text of `` moby dick , '' which was published in 1851 , into a giant rectangle , you may notice some peculiar patterns , like these words , which seem to predict the assassination of martin luther king , or these references to the 1997 death of princess di . so , was herman melville a secret prophet ?	which of the following statements is true ?	which of the following statements is true ?
the virtuous biblical stories had morphed into crude and sometimes comic stories . the clergy intended to teach against immorality . how ironic , then , that the morality plays actually encouraged vices as more popular than virtues .	are there different options the clergy could have used to teach the bible effectively ? explain .	are there different options the clergy could have used to teach the bible effectively ? explain .
combining several different populations together give us a community . and several different communities in a large area is an ecosystem . and every ecosystem together makes up our biosphere . and that , my friends , is biological organization , the pyramid of life .	which of the follow is the definition of an ecosystem ?	which of the follow is the definition of an ecosystem ?
and i was so grateful to it for showing me that forests are built on relationships which form networks , like these beautiful river networks . and i thought , `` wow , forests are just like human families . '' and i was so taken by the beauty of this idea that i fell and i crashed down on the ground , and i hit my head on this new stump .	suzanne simard compares forests to human ________ .	suzanne simard compares forests to human ________ .
the earliest versions of homer 's text say that circe mixed baneful drugs into the food such that the crew might utterly forget their native land . as it happens , one of the plants growing in the mediterranean region is an innocent sounding herb known as jimson weed , whose effects include pronounced amnesia . the plant is also loaded with compounds that disrupt the vital neurotransmitter called acetylcholine . such disruption can cause vivid hallucinations , bizarre behaviors , and general difficulty distinguishing fantasy from reality , just the sorts of things which might make people believe they 've been turned into animals , which also suggests that circe was no sorceress , but in fact a chemist who knew how to use local plants to great effect .	what happens when acetylcholine is disrupted ?	what happens when acetylcholine is disrupted ?
these courts interpret our nation 's laws and punish those who break them . the highest court , the supreme court , settles disputes among states , hears appeals from state and federal courts , and determines if federal laws are constitutional . there are nine justices on the supreme court , and , unlike any other job in our government , supreme court justices are appointed for life , or for as long as they want to stay .	who determines if federal laws are constitutional ?	who determines if federal laws are constitutional ?
`` he reluctantly did the bare minimum to avert revolution , and even there , he failed . remember what happened in 1905 after his troops fired on peaceful petitioners ? '' `` yes , and the tsar ended the rebellion by introducing a constitution and an elected parliament , the duma . ''	what happened following the events of bloody sunday ? ( choose all that apply )	what happened following the events of bloody sunday ? ( choose all that apply )
we would never do it . then why do we consider laying off people inside our organization ? charlie implemented a policy of lifetime employment .	what does sinek say matters most inside an organization ?	what does sinek say matters most inside an organization ?
the coldest part of the ocean would be the pitch-black ocean floor , once frozen , always frozen . forget lobster rolls since crustaceans would lose their habitats , or sushi since kelp forests would n't grow . what would canadian kids do in winter without pond hockey or ice fishing ? and forget james cameron 's oscar because the titanic totally would have made it . say goodbye to the white polar ice caps reflecting sunlight that would otherwise bake the planet .	besides sushi , lobster rolls , and james cameron ’ s oscar , what else would be different if ice didn ’ t float on water ? come up with as many examples as you can , and explain each one .	besides sushi , lobster rolls , and james cameron ’ s oscar , what else would be different if ice didn ’ t float on water ? come up with as many examples as you can , and explain each one .
these occur naturally when the body 's dna replicates , but also in non-dividing cells . organelles called mitochondria are especially prone to this damage . mitochondria produce adenosine triphosphate , or atp , the main energy source for all cellular processes , plus mitochondria regulate many different cell activities and play an important role in programmed cell death . if mitochondrial function declines , then cells and , later on , whole organs , deteriorate , too .	what is the role of mitochondria in aging ?	what is the role of mitochondria in aging ?
they can derive information , like its mass and the shape of its orbit . we can also hear gravitational waves by playing their signals through speakers , just like the music a radio extracts from radio waves . so those two black holes colliding sounds like this . scientists call this slide whistle-like noise a chirp , and it 's the signature of any two objects orbiting into each other .	black holes colliding , neutron stars colliding , and a star collapsing before a supernova are just a few sources of gravitational waves . what do these have in common ; that is , what is happening to the mass in each of these that makes the gravitational waves ?	black holes colliding , neutron stars colliding , and a star collapsing before a supernova are just a few sources of gravitational waves . what do these have in common ; that is , what is happening to the mass in each of these that makes the gravitational waves ?
this is where we see just how refined and accurate this internal sensing system is . to filter the blood , each nephron uses two powerful pieces of equipment : a blob-like structure called a glomerulus , and a long , stringy , straw-like tubule . the glomerulus works like a sieve , allowing only certain ingredients , such as vitamins and minerals , to pass into the tubule . then , this vessel 's job is to detect whether any of those ingredients are needed in the body .	what does the glomerulus allow in ?	what does the glomerulus allow in ?
the more plants grow and die , the more humus is produced , allowing even more plants to grow , and so on . this is an example of positive feedback , an essential force in the buildup of ecosystems . but it 's not called positive feedback because it 's beneficial .	which of the following is an example of a positive feedback loop ?	which of the following is an example of a positive feedback loop ?
water is essential for life , food sources , and transport , so many cities have been built along coast lines and river banks . however , these benefits also come with risks because natural forces that can sink a city are at their doorstep . take , for instance , an earthquake .	which natural phenomena can contribute to sinking a city ?	which natural phenomena can contribute to sinking a city ?
and some species have another capability known as recruitment . when one of these ants happens to find food , it will return with it , marking its path with a chemical scent . other ants will then follow this pheromone trail , renewing it each time they manage to find food and return . once the food in that spot is depleted , the ants stop marking their return .	ants have to get close to something to find it because ________ .	ants have to get close to something to find it because ________ .
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar let 's talk about the facts of life . you remember that conversation you had when you were a kid about sex or drugs with your parents or some trusted adult ? probably not because it 's a myth .	do you remember the talk you had with your parents , or another trusted adult , about sex ? do you think this kind of conversation is effective for educating about sex ? if not , explain a better alternative .	do you remember the talk you had with your parents , or another trusted adult , about sex ? do you think this kind of conversation is effective for educating about sex ? if not , explain a better alternative .
it begins with an involuntary spasm or sudden contraction of the diaphragm , the large dome-shaped muscle below our lungs that we use to inhale air . this is followed almost immediately by the sudden closure of the vocal chords and the opening between them , which is called the glottis . the movement of the diaphragm initiates a sudden intake of air , but the closure of the vocal chords stops it from entering the wind pipe and reaching the lungs .	the closure of the vocal cords ( and glottis ) during a human hiccup prevents :	the closure of the vocal cords ( and glottis ) during a human hiccup prevents :
but your assumption that sadness has an external cause outside the self is a relatively new idea . ancient greek doctors did n't view sadness that way . they believed it was a dark fluid inside the body .	contemporary ideas about the neurochemical nature of depression has some parallel with ancient greek ideas about melancholy because :	contemporary ideas about the neurochemical nature of depression has some parallel with ancient greek ideas about melancholy because :
our instincts tell us that deliberately causing someone 's death is different than allowing them to die as collateral damage . it just feels wrong for reasons that are hard to explain . this intersection between ethics and psychology is what 's so interesting about the trolley problem . the dilemma in its many variations reveal that what we think is right or wrong depends on factors other than a logical weighing of the pros and cons .	define the principle of utilitarianism , and explain how it applies to the trolley problem .	define the principle of utilitarianism , and explain how it applies to the trolley problem .
remember that famous phrase , `` no taxation without representation '' ? the american colonists had long believed that they were not subject to taxes imposed by legislature in which they lacked representation . in fact , rather than paying the taxes , they simply dodged the tax collectors .	why did parliament impose new taxes on the american colonists after the mid-1700s ?	why did parliament impose new taxes on the american colonists after the mid-1700s ?
remember that famous phrase , `` no taxation without representation '' ? the american colonists had long believed that they were not subject to taxes imposed by legislature in which they lacked representation . in fact , rather than paying the taxes , they simply dodged the tax collectors .	how did the colonists respond to these new taxes ?	how did the colonists respond to these new taxes ?
these compounds contain measurable quantities called isotopes . stable isotopes in bone collagen and tooth enamel varies among mammals dependent on where they lived and what they ate . so by analyzing these isotopes , we can draw direct inferences regarding the diet and location of historic people .	bone and tooth enamel incorporate chemical signals from different periods of an individual ’ s lifetime . what does the chemical composition of bone tissue reflect ? explain how .	bone and tooth enamel incorporate chemical signals from different periods of an individual ’ s lifetime . what does the chemical composition of bone tissue reflect ? explain how .
here 's how it works . first , scientists dissolve boiled egg whites in water with a chemical called urea , a small molecule that acts as a lubricant , coating the proteins ' long strands and making it easier for them to glide past each other . then , they spin that solution in a glass tube at a breakneck 5000 rotations per minute , making the solution spread out into a thin film .	when the egg goes from raw to boiled , the egg whites ' proteins start _____ and end up _____ .	when the egg goes from raw to boiled , the egg whites ' proteins start _____ and end up _____ .
it 's important to learn how cameras work with light to create an image , that way we 'll know what 's going on when it 's time to capture a moment . there are three variables that determine if you 're getting the right amount of light for the correct exposure . with a manual camera , we 're able to change any of the variable ourselves . different settings can result in really different pictures .	how many variables are we able to change in a manual camera for getting the right exposure ?	how many variables are we able to change in a manual camera for getting the right exposure ?
well , this screen fits the movie a little better , but still only shows 75 % of the original movie at one time . suppose someone made a tv for your living room that was actually 2.35 to 1 to show those full movies ? well , the tv with the same height as the most current 50-inch tvs - that tv would be close to six feet long .	suppose someone made a tv for your living room that was actually 2.35:1 to show full movies , and the tv was the same height as the average 50 '' tv . how wide would the new tv have to be ?	suppose someone made a tv for your living room that was actually 2.35:1 to show full movies , and the tv was the same height as the average 50 '' tv . how wide would the new tv have to be ?
we 'll come back to them later . now on to our story . in the year 400 c.e .	this lecture , when given in a classroom , is entitled : “ the words tell the story. ” what is meant by that title ?	this lecture , when given in a classroom , is entitled : “ the words tell the story. ” what is meant by that title ?
are there a lot more boys than girls who play sports ? is the boys ' soccer field better than the girls ' ? are athletic trainers available to all teams equally ?	jefferson high school decides to add a girls ’ softball team in order to demonstrate progress towards equality . yet , because there is already a football field , a baseball field , and a soccer field on high school property , there is not room to add a softball field . so jhs makes arrangements with the city for the softball team to play on a municipal field that is used by local amateur leagues . the field is two miles away from school . there is no locker room for the girls to use , and the field does not have lights or a concession stand . maintenance such as mowing and lining of the field does not occur on a regular basis . in comparison , all of the facilities at jefferson high school have locker rooms available and are well maintained . the football stadium has a concession stand and the baseball field has lights . if you were a member of the jhs softball team , would you think this is fair ? what would you do about it ?	jefferson high school decides to add a girls ’ softball team in order to demonstrate progress towards equality . yet , because there is already a football field , a baseball field , and a soccer field on high school property , there is not room to add a softball field . so jhs makes arrangements with the city for the softball team to play on a municipal field that is used by local amateur leagues . the field is two miles away from school . there is no locker room for the girls to use , and the field does not have lights or a concession stand . maintenance such as mowing and lining of the field does not occur on a regular basis . in comparison , all of the facilities at jefferson high school have locker rooms available and are well maintained . the football stadium has a concession stand and the baseball field has lights . if you were a member of the jhs softball team , would you think this is fair ? what would you do about it ?
things stick around for years sometimes before you understand why you 're interested in them , before you understand their import to you . here 's three of mine . when richard feynman was a young boy in queens , he went for a walk with his dad and his wagon and a ball .	what things connect the three stories that savage shares ?	what things connect the three stories that savage shares ?
lastly , think about the membranes involved in the engulfing process . chloroplasts and mitochondria both have two membranes surrounding them , an inner and outer membrane . their inner membrane contains some particular lipids and proteins that are not present in the outer membrane .	chloroplasts in a eukaryotic cell have both an inner and outer membrane . the inner membrane of chloroplasts is similar to :	chloroplasts in a eukaryotic cell have both an inner and outer membrane . the inner membrane of chloroplasts is similar to :
lastly , think about the membranes involved in the engulfing process . chloroplasts and mitochondria both have two membranes surrounding them , an inner and outer membrane . their inner membrane contains some particular lipids and proteins that are not present in the outer membrane .	describe in your own words how chloroplasts and mitochondria found within a cell have two membranes .	describe in your own words how chloroplasts and mitochondria found within a cell have two membranes .
failing to find the ruler he sought , confucius returned to lu and became a teacher and philosopher so influential , that he helped shaped chinese culture and we recognize his name worldwide , even today . for the disciples of confucius , he was the living embodiment of a sage who leads others through his virtue , and they recorded his sayings , which eventually were edited into a book we know in english as `` the analects . '' today , millions of people worldwide adhere to the principles of confucianism , and though the precise meaning of his words has been debated for millennia , when asked to summarize his teachings in a single phrase , confucius himself said , `` do not inflict upon others that which you yourself would not want . ''	the collection of the sayings of confucius is known in english as what ?	the collection of the sayings of confucius is known in english as what ?
they 're caught red-handed . the more covert forms of plagiarism include the wild goose chase technique , in which plagiarists create fake authors , book titles , page numbers , or other information in order to cover up plagiarism . and the old synonym switcheroo in which plagiarists utilize a thesaurus as their main weapon .	lee forgets to write down the details regarding the online sources , interview subjects , and other information she used as she gathered information for her blog about the dpi ’ s most wanted plagiarists . running out of time , lee decides to fabricate the entire works cited section at the end of the blog post . what type of plagiarism did she commit ?	lee forgets to write down the details regarding the online sources , interview subjects , and other information she used as she gathered information for her blog about the dpi ’ s most wanted plagiarists . running out of time , lee decides to fabricate the entire works cited section at the end of the blog post . what type of plagiarism did she commit ?
they 're caught red-handed . the more covert forms of plagiarism include the wild goose chase technique , in which plagiarists create fake authors , book titles , page numbers , or other information in order to cover up plagiarism . and the old synonym switcheroo in which plagiarists utilize a thesaurus as their main weapon .	in her conspiracy theory project claiming that alien possession is the cause of plagiarism in american high schools , mary weaves together quote after quote from properly cited outside sources . has she committed plagiarism ?	in her conspiracy theory project claiming that alien possession is the cause of plagiarism in american high schools , mary weaves together quote after quote from properly cited outside sources . has she committed plagiarism ?
so , you might ask , `` robots ? creativity ? i do n't get this .	how do you define creativity ?	how do you define creativity ?
it ’ s this beautiful red colour and it has an unpleasant smell . bromine comes from the greek word bromos which means stench , a really horrible smell . in fact this bromine probably comes from near where i did my degree because in europe , the second , well the largest producer of bromine in europe is the octale company which is based on amlwch on anglesey which is where i went last weekend .	as the professor explained , the name bromine comes from the greek “ bromos ” . what property of bromine is represented in its name ?	as the professor explained , the name bromine comes from the greek “ bromos ” . what property of bromine is represented in its name ?
if the neuronal ensembles are turned on at the same time , you experience the composite image just as if you 'd actually seen it . this conscious purposeful synchronization of different neuronal ensembles by the prefrontal cortex is called mental synthesis . in order for mental sythesis to work , signals would have to arrive at both neuronal ensembles at the same time .	which activity necessarily involves mental synthesis ( mental synthesis is conscious purposeful prefrontal cortex-controlled imagination ) ?	which activity necessarily involves mental synthesis ( mental synthesis is conscious purposeful prefrontal cortex-controlled imagination ) ?
[ theme music ] so in less than 200 years islam went from not existing to being the religious and political organizing principal of one of the largest empires in the world . and that story begins in the 7th century ce when the angel gabriel appeared to muhammad , a 40-ish guy who made his living as a caravan trader and told him to begin reciting the word of god . initially , this freaked muhammad out , as , you know , it would—but then his wife and a couple of other people encouraged him and slowly he came to accept the mantle as prophet .	which angel appeared to muhammad ?	which angel appeared to muhammad ?
density is a measure of an object 's mass divided by its volume . pure gold is very dense , while silver is less dense . so if there was silver in the crown , it would be less dense than if it were made of pure gold .	list five objects that you think are more dense than water . how will you test your prediction about the five objects ? how will you determine which objects are the most dense ?	list five objects that you think are more dense than water . how will you test your prediction about the five objects ? how will you determine which objects are the most dense ?
combined with the regular base tone , this gave the cajon a sound close to a basic drum set . the cajon quickly caught on , not only becoming standard in flamenco , but being used in genres like folk , jazz , blues and rock . today , many specialized cajons are manufactured , some with adjustable strings , some with multiple playing surfaces , and some with a snare mechansim .	flamenco , jazz and rock are some of the musical genres using the cajon today . which other musical styles do you think could benefit from the cajon ?	flamenco , jazz and rock are some of the musical genres using the cajon today . which other musical styles do you think could benefit from the cajon ?
that 's equivalent to the weight of 14 eiffel towers . most of this caffeine is consumed in coffee and tea , but it 's also ingested in some sodas , chocolate , caffeine pills , and even beverages labeled decaf . caffeine helps us feel alert , focused , happy , and energetic , even if we have n't had enough sleep . but it can also raise our blood pressure , and make us feel anxious .	many people consume chocolate when they feel down because it helps lift their mood . knowing that chocolate is a source of caffeine , explain how chocolate makes people happier .	many people consume chocolate when they feel down because it helps lift their mood . knowing that chocolate is a source of caffeine , explain how chocolate makes people happier .
why is that question literally hanging over my head ? but people of the indus valley were trading with mesopotamians as early as 3500 bce . we also know that it was the largest of the ancient civilizations . archaeologists have discovered more than 1500 sites .	the archeologist have found the remains of cities to be incredibly well planned out . historians estimate that each major city could support as many as 80,000 people , so ancient india was by far the largest early civilization . what significant feature of architecture made these ancient buildings so special ?	the archeologist have found the remains of cities to be incredibly well planned out . historians estimate that each major city could support as many as 80,000 people , so ancient india was by far the largest early civilization . what significant feature of architecture made these ancient buildings so special ?
the answer lies in the way that certain forests grow . in the conifer-rich forests of western north america , lodgepole pines constantly seek the sun . their seeds prefer to grow on open sunny ground , which pits saplings against each other as each tries to get more light by growing straighter and faster than its neighbors . over time , generations of slender , lofty lodgepoles form an umbrella-like canopy that shades the forest floor below .	lodgepole pine seedlings prefer to grow on ________ , sunny ground .	lodgepole pine seedlings prefer to grow on ________ , sunny ground .
now you 're probably thinking that a reaction just happens in one direction and that 's it . sometimes that 's true . for example , things ca n't unburn or unexplode .	which of the following statements is true :	which of the following statements is true :
and writers harness that fear not by revealing horrors , but by leaving the audience hanging in anticipation of them . that is , in a state of suspense . the most familiar examples of suspense come from horror films and mystery novels . what 's inside the haunted mansion ?	what techniques does the lesson suggest for creating suspense in fiction ? make a list , and add examples from suspenseful books that you have read . are there any other techniques you would add ?	what techniques does the lesson suggest for creating suspense in fiction ? make a list , and add examples from suspenseful books that you have read . are there any other techniques you would add ?
and that only happens efficiently over tiny distances . so for oxygen to reach the cells within our bodies , it needs a transportation network . this is where our 20 trillion red blood cells come in .	which of the following are necessary for oxygen to reach the cells of your body ?	which of the following are necessary for oxygen to reach the cells of your body ?
unfortunately , you 've all been captured by the tyrannical rulers and brought to the ancient colosseum for their deadly entertainment . before you 're thrown into the dungeon , you see many numbered hallways leading outside . but each exit is blocked by an electric barrier with a combination keypad .	based on what you have learned about factorization from the lesson , how many positive factors does the number 12 have ?	based on what you have learned about factorization from the lesson , how many positive factors does the number 12 have ?
when you think of archimedes ' `` eureka ! '' moment , you probably think of this .	what greek city did archimedes come from ?	what greek city did archimedes come from ?
when you think of archimedes ' `` eureka ! '' moment , you probably think of this .	what was the name of the ship designed by archimedes ?	what was the name of the ship designed by archimedes ?
when you think of archimedes ' `` eureka ! '' moment , you probably think of this .	to what goddess was the temple on archimedes ' ship dedicated ?	to what goddess was the temple on archimedes ' ship dedicated ?
when you think of archimedes ' `` eureka ! '' moment , you probably think of this .	does the design of a huge ship explain archimedes ’ eureka moment better than the measurement of a crown ’ s density ?	does the design of a huge ship explain archimedes ’ eureka moment better than the measurement of a crown ’ s density ?
but now , they must divvy up the booty according to the pirate code . as captain , amaro gets to propose how to distribute the coins . then , each pirate , including amaro himself , gets to vote either yarr or nay .	who gets to propose how to distribute the coins ?	who gets to propose how to distribute the coins ?
on our planet , we have two polar regions : the arctic , whose name comes from the greek arktikos , of the north , and the antarctic from antarktikos , opposite of the north . but there 's an easier way to remember them if you just remember what surrounds them .	arktikos means :	arktikos means :
that takes some real guts ! beriah green ? anyone ever heard of beriah green ?	who is beriah green ?	who is beriah green ?
that takes some real guts ! beriah green ? anyone ever heard of beriah green ?	beriah green is not well-known . although this video focused primarily on well-known historical figures explain why beriah green is featured .	beriah green is not well-known . although this video focused primarily on well-known historical figures explain why beriah green is featured .
put another way , that 's enough water to immerse the entire united states under a body of salt water over 132 kilometers tall , a height well beyond the reach of the highest clouds and extending deep into the upper atmosphere . with all that volume , the ocean represents 97 % of earth 's total water content . on top of all that , the ocean contains upwards of 99 % of the world 's biosphere , that is , the spaces and places where life exists .	the percentage of earth ’ s biosphere that is not encompassed by the ocean is…	the percentage of earth ’ s biosphere that is not encompassed by the ocean is…
put another way , that 's enough water to immerse the entire united states under a body of salt water over 132 kilometers tall , a height well beyond the reach of the highest clouds and extending deep into the upper atmosphere . with all that volume , the ocean represents 97 % of earth 's total water content . on top of all that , the ocean contains upwards of 99 % of the world 's biosphere , that is , the spaces and places where life exists .	the ocean currently represents approximately ___ of earth ’ s surface and ___ of earth ’ s total water content .	the ocean currently represents approximately ___ of earth ’ s surface and ___ of earth ’ s total water content .
put another way , that 's enough water to immerse the entire united states under a body of salt water over 132 kilometers tall , a height well beyond the reach of the highest clouds and extending deep into the upper atmosphere . with all that volume , the ocean represents 97 % of earth 's total water content . on top of all that , the ocean contains upwards of 99 % of the world 's biosphere , that is , the spaces and places where life exists .	in terms of both physicality and perspective , what influences support the existence of singular geologic features ( e.g . mauna kea , challenger deep , etc . ) within the earth ’ s ocean versus a continental setting ?	in terms of both physicality and perspective , what influences support the existence of singular geologic features ( e.g . mauna kea , challenger deep , etc . ) within the earth ’ s ocean versus a continental setting ?
put another way , that 's enough water to immerse the entire united states under a body of salt water over 132 kilometers tall , a height well beyond the reach of the highest clouds and extending deep into the upper atmosphere . with all that volume , the ocean represents 97 % of earth 's total water content . on top of all that , the ocean contains upwards of 99 % of the world 's biosphere , that is , the spaces and places where life exists .	does the ocean always have the same surface area and volume ? why ?	does the ocean always have the same surface area and volume ? why ?
to understand climate change , think of the game `` tetris . '' for eons , earth has played a version of this game with blocks of carbon .	what are some of the effects of climate change ?	what are some of the effects of climate change ?
del lama 's career as a money changer would not have been possible without the help of the powerful medici family , in particular cosimo de ' medici , who appears prominently at mary 's feet . the other wise men can be identified as piero and giovanni de ' medici , cosimo 's two sons . the business of money exchange had dubious ethical and legal associations , so the friendship of this powerful family was important .	who are the two men who look directly out at the viewer ?	who are the two men who look directly out at the viewer ?
again , dr . snow presented his case , but even then , city officials spurned his theory , not wanting to admit that there was human waste in london 's water supply , or that they were wrong about miasma theory , which was , after all , hundreds of years old . it was n't until 1884 that dr .	the prevailing theory for the cause of disease for hundreds of years was miasma theory . in miasma theory , what was thought to cause disease ?	the prevailing theory for the cause of disease for hundreds of years was miasma theory . in miasma theory , what was thought to cause disease ?
picture yourself in a tub of molasses with your arms moving about as slow as the minute hand of a clock , and you 'd have a pretty good idea of what a sperm is up against . so , how do microbes manage to get anywhere ? well , many do n't bother swimming at all .	which of the following strategies are used by microbes to get around ?	which of the following strategies are used by microbes to get around ?
they even contract hiv and aids and other sexually transmitted diseases . for my little sister , she ended up being pregnant . today , she 's only 16 years old and she has three children . her first marriage did not survive , nor did her second marriage .	how many children did memory ’ s sister have by age 16 ?	how many children did memory ’ s sister have by age 16 ?
volcanic ash , dispersed by wind , can blanket the sky for days , while toxic gases , such as sulfur dioxide , react in the stratosphere , blocking out solar radiation and drastically cooling the atmosphere below . the resulting volcanic winter , along with other effects such as acid rain , can effect multiple continents , disrupting natural cycles and annihilating the plant life on which other organisms , including humans , depend . releasing nearly 160 cubic kilometers of rock , ash and gas , the mount tambora eruption was the largest in recorded history , causing as many as 90,000 deaths .	which of the following contribute to a ‘ volcanic winter ’ ?	which of the following contribute to a ‘ volcanic winter ’ ?
other drugs combat male pattern baldness by blocking the conversion of testosterone to dht so that it does n't affect those sensitive follicles . stem cells also play a role in regulating the growth cycle , and so scientists are investigating whether they can manipulate the activity of these cells to encourage follicles to start producing hair again . and in the meantime , while scientists hone their hair-reviving methods , anyone going bald , or considering baldness , can remember that they 're in great company .	hair follicle stem cells play a key role in regulating the cycles of the hair follicle . how can research on stem cells be used to develop new drugs to reverse baldness ?	hair follicle stem cells play a key role in regulating the cycles of the hair follicle . how can research on stem cells be used to develop new drugs to reverse baldness ?
so if you think it ’ s the thought that counts , think again . science shows there are some pretty amazing benefits to our mind , body and relationships when we say those two small words – thank you .	1. according to science , what are the basic emotions ?	1. according to science , what are the basic emotions ?
when you think of natural history museums , you probably picture exhibits filled with ancient lifeless things , like dinosaurs meteroites , and gemstones . but behind that educational exterior , which only includes about 1 % of a museum 's collection , there are hidden laboratories where scientific breakthroughs are made .	why should we study science if our results will not have any immediate impact ?	why should we study science if our results will not have any immediate impact ?
without hesitation , you grab your hazmat suit and get ready to save the world . the lab is a four by four compound of 16 rooms with an entrance on the northwest corner and an exit at the southeast . each room is connected to the adjacent ones by an airlock , and the virus has been released in every room except the entrance .	if you start in the northwest corner , in how many ways will you end up in the southeast corner if you pass through every room exactly once ?	if you start in the northwest corner , in how many ways will you end up in the southeast corner if you pass through every room exactly once ?
without hesitation , you grab your hazmat suit and get ready to save the world . the lab is a four by four compound of 16 rooms with an entrance on the northwest corner and an exit at the southeast . each room is connected to the adjacent ones by an airlock , and the virus has been released in every room except the entrance .	in which grid setting would you be able to start in the northwest corner and end up in the southeast corner if you pass through every room exactly once ?	in which grid setting would you be able to start in the northwest corner and end up in the southeast corner if you pass through every room exactly once ?
in the book , dorothy walked to the emerald city on the yellow brick road in her silver shoes . the movie 's ruby red slippers started out as silver . silver and gold on the road to prosperity .	in the 1939 mgm movie , dorothy ’ s shoes were ruby red ; in the book , they were :	in the 1939 mgm movie , dorothy ’ s shoes were ruby red ; in the book , they were :
( gasps ) so , what is empathy and why is it very different than sympathy ? empathy fuels connection . sympathy drives disconnection .	list the 4 qualities of empathy .	list the 4 qualities of empathy .
( audience chuckles ) recognising emotion in other people , then communicating that . empathy is feeling with people . i always think of empathy as this kind of sacred space .	empathy is feeling ____ people .	empathy is feeling ____ people .
and i think we have the road not taken as one answer about what poetry can do . because poetry is so often musical and rhythmic , it has a way of sticking in our heads , like i memorized it almost by accident . frost thought that the poem was exploring how people experience choice making rather than offering advice , but precisely because it sounds good hank , it seems like good advice .	john green says , `` poetry is so often musical and rhythmic it has a way of sticking in our heads . '' what are some sound devices frost uses in `` the road not taken '' that make it musical and rhythmic ?	john green says , `` poetry is so often musical and rhythmic it has a way of sticking in our heads . '' what are some sound devices frost uses in `` the road not taken '' that make it musical and rhythmic ?
rather than providing guidelines for members to live better lives , a cult seeks to directly control them , from personal and family relationships , to financial assets and living arrangements . cults also demand obedience to human leaders who tend to be highly persuasive people with authoritarian and narcissistic streaks motivated by money , sex , power , or all three . while a cult leader uses personal charisma to attract initial followers , further expansion works like a pyramid scheme , with early members recruiting new ones .	cult leaders tend to be :	cult leaders tend to be :
well , no . certain nuclei are not stable in that way . this means they may change suddenly , spontaneously .	imagine a source containing 8 million radioactive nuclei . for this particular material , in one hour , half of the nuclei decay . thus , after one hour , 4 million nuclei have decayed and there are 4 million remaining . write down the numbers of nuclei remaining after each subsequent hour for the next four hours . use the numbers to sketch a graph of ‘ number of remaining nuclei ’ against ‘ time in hours ’ . this is the characteristic shape of exponential decay .	imagine a source containing 8 million radioactive nuclei . for this particular material , in one hour , half of the nuclei decay . thus , after one hour , 4 million nuclei have decayed and there are 4 million remaining . write down the numbers of nuclei remaining after each subsequent hour for the next four hours . use the numbers to sketch a graph of ‘ number of remaining nuclei ’ against ‘ time in hours ’ . this is the characteristic shape of exponential decay .
a mathematician would say that a flat sheet is isometric to a cylinder . but not all shapes are isometric . if i try to turn my flat sheet into part of a sphere , there 's no way i can do it .	which of the following shapes are isometric to each other :	which of the following shapes are isometric to each other :
for instance , even a few cumulus clouds in front of the sun can reduce the electricity production in solar towers to almost zero because of this dependence on direct rays . in solar panels , those clouds would decrease energy output as well , though not as much because solar panels can use all types of irradiance . however , all this depends on the clouds exact positioning .	which of the three ( or combination of ) types of solar irradiance do photovoltaics use ?	which of the three ( or combination of ) types of solar irradiance do photovoltaics use ?
... and i 'm scratching , and i like to hide . oh , i am such a good spider .	narrative voice can only be in first person .	narrative voice can only be in first person .
... and i 'm scratching , and i like to hide . oh , i am such a good spider .	what is a narrative voice ?	what is a narrative voice ?
... and i 'm scratching , and i like to hide . oh , i am such a good spider .	which point of view is least used ?	which point of view is least used ?
... and i 'm scratching , and i like to hide . oh , i am such a good spider .	what point of view allows the author the greatest flexibility and is most commonly used ?	what point of view allows the author the greatest flexibility and is most commonly used ?
and how do you soothe the burn ? why does wasabi make your eyes water ? and how spicy is the spiciest spice ?	what ’ s the difference between chilies and wasabi ?	what ’ s the difference between chilies and wasabi ?
it gets that energy from light , which comes in more energy levels than you could count . light consists of tiny particles called photons and the amount of energy in each photon corresponds to its color . red light has lower energy and longer wavelengths .	light consists of tiny particles called ________ .	light consists of tiny particles called ________ .
so one lion and one wildebeest take the raft back leaving us with one of each animal on the left bank and two of each on the right . again , there 's no point in sending the lion-wildebeest pair back , so the next trip should be either a pair of lions or a pair of wildebeest . if the lions go , they 'd eat the wildebeest on the left , so they stay , and the two wildebeest cross instead . now we 're quite close because the wildebeest are all where they need to be with safety in numbers .	can this problem be solved if instead there are four lions and four wildebeest ?	can this problem be solved if instead there are four lions and four wildebeest ?
so one lion and one wildebeest take the raft back leaving us with one of each animal on the left bank and two of each on the right . again , there 's no point in sending the lion-wildebeest pair back , so the next trip should be either a pair of lions or a pair of wildebeest . if the lions go , they 'd eat the wildebeest on the left , so they stay , and the two wildebeest cross instead . now we 're quite close because the wildebeest are all where they need to be with safety in numbers .	suppose the raft can hold 3 animals . what is the maximum number of wildebeest and lions that will be able to cross ?	suppose the raft can hold 3 animals . what is the maximum number of wildebeest and lions that will be able to cross ?
and so by this communication , they grow together into this magical symbiosis . and the way that symbiosis works is the plant takes its hard-earned carbon from photosynthesis and brings it to the fungus because the fungus ca n't photosynthesize . and the fungus takes nutrients and water it gathers from the soil , where plant roots ca n't grow , and they give it to the plant .	what happens during photosynthesis ?	what happens during photosynthesis ?
how does my hair look ? good . what is that ?	the primary reason for replacing the terms good and bad in writing and speaking is ?	the primary reason for replacing the terms good and bad in writing and speaking is ?
how does my hair look ? good . what is that ?	revise and rewrite the following passage by utilizing superior replacements for the terms good and bad . it was a good day . the sunlight felt good on her legs that had been sheltered under jeans all year . the beach and the ocean smelled good . she let all the good sounds soak into her soul . she was determined to make this as good a vacation as her grandmother had ever had .	revise and rewrite the following passage by utilizing superior replacements for the terms good and bad . it was a good day . the sunlight felt good on her legs that had been sheltered under jeans all year . the beach and the ocean smelled good . she let all the good sounds soak into her soul . she was determined to make this as good a vacation as her grandmother had ever had .
without them , plants would lose a pollinator . but some scientists say that mosquitos are n't actually all that important . if we got rid of them , they argue , another species would simply take their place and we 'd probably have far fewer deaths from malaria .	are humans more important than animals , like mosquitos ?	are humans more important than animals , like mosquitos ?
without them , plants would lose a pollinator . but some scientists say that mosquitos are n't actually all that important . if we got rid of them , they argue , another species would simply take their place and we 'd probably have far fewer deaths from malaria .	what kinds of studies do you think that scientists should do learn more about mosquitos ?	what kinds of studies do you think that scientists should do learn more about mosquitos ?
there are ones that seem to keep going , but in reality , they invariably turn out to be drawing energy from some external source . even if engineers could somehow design a machine that did n't violate the first law of thermodynamics , it still would n't work in the real world because of the second law . the second law of thermodynamics tells us that energy tends to spread out through processes like friction .	in this video , we focused on the first and second law of thermodynamics to explain the constraints on a perpetual motion machine . if our claim is true , it should be explainable with other frameworks such as newton 's laws . try working it out ! ( hint : start with the self-watering pot . )	in this video , we focused on the first and second law of thermodynamics to explain the constraints on a perpetual motion machine . if our claim is true , it should be explainable with other frameworks such as newton 's laws . try working it out ! ( hint : start with the self-watering pot . )
i just find that it is a combination of letters that people in england find difficult to pronounce . however rontgen was , i believe , the first nobel prize winner or one of the first nobel prize winners and so it is really quite fitting that he should have an element named after him . the first discovery was of three atoms , of this element and then the experiments were repeated , and another three were found , so it was relatively still relatively quite a small number , but it is really important when somebody does a series of these experiments that you have to repeat them to make sure that you have really seen what you think you want .	how many atoms of roentgenium were synthesized on the first occasion ?	how many atoms of roentgenium were synthesized on the first occasion ?
i just find that it is a combination of letters that people in england find difficult to pronounce . however rontgen was , i believe , the first nobel prize winner or one of the first nobel prize winners and so it is really quite fitting that he should have an element named after him . the first discovery was of three atoms , of this element and then the experiments were repeated , and another three were found , so it was relatively still relatively quite a small number , but it is really important when somebody does a series of these experiments that you have to repeat them to make sure that you have really seen what you think you want .	roentgen was the first scientist to be awarded the nobel prize in physics . when was that ?	roentgen was the first scientist to be awarded the nobel prize in physics . when was that ?
i just find that it is a combination of letters that people in england find difficult to pronounce . however rontgen was , i believe , the first nobel prize winner or one of the first nobel prize winners and so it is really quite fitting that he should have an element named after him . the first discovery was of three atoms , of this element and then the experiments were repeated , and another three were found , so it was relatively still relatively quite a small number , but it is really important when somebody does a series of these experiments that you have to repeat them to make sure that you have really seen what you think you want .	what appeared on the very first x-ray picture , two weeks after roentgen had made his discovery ?	what appeared on the very first x-ray picture , two weeks after roentgen had made his discovery ?
the energy of one gram of antimatter would be enough for driving a car 1,000 times around the earth , or to bring the space shuttle into orbit . so why do n't we use antimatter for energy production ? well , antimatter is n't just sitting around , ready for us to harvest .	what is the energy efficiency of antiproton production at cern , approximately :	what is the energy efficiency of antiproton production at cern , approximately :
when a magnetic grain volume is too small , its magnetization is easily disturbed by heat energy and can cause bits to switch unintentionally , leading to data loss . scientists resolved this limitation in a remarkably simple way : by changing the direction of recording from longitudinal to perpendicular , allowing areal density to approach one terabit per square inch . recently , the potential limit has been increased yet again through heat assisted magnetic recording .	it is predicted that perpendicular recording will push the areal density up to :	it is predicted that perpendicular recording will push the areal density up to :
when a magnetic grain volume is too small , its magnetization is easily disturbed by heat energy and can cause bits to switch unintentionally , leading to data loss . scientists resolved this limitation in a remarkably simple way : by changing the direction of recording from longitudinal to perpendicular , allowing areal density to approach one terabit per square inch . recently , the potential limit has been increased yet again through heat assisted magnetic recording .	which technology is currently in the prototyping stage that will supersede perpendicular recording :	which technology is currently in the prototyping stage that will supersede perpendicular recording :
sram is the fastest memory in a computer system , but also the most expensive , and takes up three times more space than dram . but ram and cache can only hold data as long as they 're powered . for data to remain once the device is turned off , it must be transferred into a long-term storage device , which comes in three major types . in magnetic storage , which is the cheapest , data is stored as a magnetic pattern on a spinning disc coated with magnetic film .	among the properties of a memory device ( speed , capacity , cost , data life-span ) which one , in your opinion is the most important , and why ?	among the properties of a memory device ( speed , capacity , cost , data life-span ) which one , in your opinion is the most important , and why ?
douglas even admitted that he could travel from washington d.c. to chicago by the light of his own burning effigies . the political consequences of the kansas-nebraska act were stunning . previously , both whigs and democrats had included northern and southern lawmakers united around various issues , but now slavery became a dividing factor that could not be ignored .	democrat stephen a. douglas sponsored what became known as the kansas-nebraska act because ________ .	democrat stephen a. douglas sponsored what became known as the kansas-nebraska act because ________ .
douglas even admitted that he could travel from washington d.c. to chicago by the light of his own burning effigies . the political consequences of the kansas-nebraska act were stunning . previously , both whigs and democrats had included northern and southern lawmakers united around various issues , but now slavery became a dividing factor that could not be ignored .	passage of the kansas-nebraska act resulted in ________ .	passage of the kansas-nebraska act resulted in ________ .
douglas even admitted that he could travel from washington d.c. to chicago by the light of his own burning effigies . the political consequences of the kansas-nebraska act were stunning . previously , both whigs and democrats had included northern and southern lawmakers united around various issues , but now slavery became a dividing factor that could not be ignored .	in the 1850s , most white northerners were not abolitionists and yet there was widespread opposition in the north to the kansas-nebraska act . why ?	in the 1850s , most white northerners were not abolitionists and yet there was widespread opposition in the north to the kansas-nebraska act . why ?
in fact , the amniotic egg brings the pond with them by enclosing the aquatic environment within its shell . this is achieved by four main upgrades that are unique to amniotic eggs . let 's take a closer look .	the chorion of amniotic eggs functions in :	the chorion of amniotic eggs functions in :
i do n't need to write a nine bic and i 'll admit i do n't know shit about millard fillmore why did i have to learn this stuff ? it is never common -- had they never used it for nothing ? why did we have to read the scarlet letter ?	psychology question : reflect on this line from the song : “ why did i have to learn this stuff ? it has never come in handy , never used it for nothing. ” on a scale from 1 ( not at all ) to 7 ( completely agree ) , how much do you agree with the singer ’ s sentiment ? why or why not ?	psychology question : reflect on this line from the song : “ why did i have to learn this stuff ? it has never come in handy , never used it for nothing. ” on a scale from 1 ( not at all ) to 7 ( completely agree ) , how much do you agree with the singer ’ s sentiment ? why or why not ?
bangladesh , for example , which has surpassed china as the world 's biggest exporter of cotton t-shirts , employs 4.5 million people in the t-shirt industry , but they typically face poor conditions and low wages . after manufacture , all those t-shirts travel by ship , train , and truck to be sold in high-income countries , a process that gives cotton an enormous carbon footprint . some countries produce their own clothing domestically , which cuts out this polluting stage , but generally , apparel production accounts for 10 % of global carbon emissions .	after t-shirts are made and shipped to high income countries , often the ____ footprint of the item increases drastically .	after t-shirts are made and shipped to high income countries , often the ____ footprint of the item increases drastically .
mendelevium , which is named after one of the most important people as far as the periodic table is concerned , which is dimitri mendeleev . mendelevium is named after mendeleev , in russia the periodic table is called the mendeleev table , and you can see here on my tie i ’ ve got a picture of mendeleev . it ’ s another element which has absolutely zero use in the real world .	when were the first atoms of mendelevium synthesized ?	when were the first atoms of mendelevium synthesized ?
mendelevium , which is named after one of the most important people as far as the periodic table is concerned , which is dimitri mendeleev . mendelevium is named after mendeleev , in russia the periodic table is called the mendeleev table , and you can see here on my tie i ’ ve got a picture of mendeleev . it ’ s another element which has absolutely zero use in the real world .	what is the periodic table called in russia ?	what is the periodic table called in russia ?
mendelevium , which is named after one of the most important people as far as the periodic table is concerned , which is dimitri mendeleev . mendelevium is named after mendeleev , in russia the periodic table is called the mendeleev table , and you can see here on my tie i ’ ve got a picture of mendeleev . it ’ s another element which has absolutely zero use in the real world .	when did dmitri mendeleev publish the first periodic table of the elements ?	when did dmitri mendeleev publish the first periodic table of the elements ?
that 's because time comes into the equation , too . when continental plates first collide , uplift happens fast . the peaks grow tall with steep slopes .	how does continental uplift occur ?	how does continental uplift occur ?
that 's because time comes into the equation , too . when continental plates first collide , uplift happens fast . the peaks grow tall with steep slopes .	when two plates collide , such as the indian and eurasian plates , what occurs to accommodate the extra crust ?	when two plates collide , such as the indian and eurasian plates , what occurs to accommodate the extra crust ?
the scene this young artist set out to paint was well-known : the three wise men , or magi , arriving at the birth place of jesus christ . botticelli would aspire to take this common theme and produce an entirely original work , while asserting himself among the most important citizens of florence . many earlier paintings illustrate the magi arriving at a stable , stately manger , fitting for the son of god .	how does botticelli take a well-known subject and create something original ?	how does botticelli take a well-known subject and create something original ?
3 x 3 = 9 , but the 3 can only be counted once . therefore , every locker that is a perfect square will remain open . you know that these ten lockers are the solution , so you open them immediately and read the words inside : `` the code is the first five lockers touched only twice . ''	why are locker numbers that are perfect squares the only ones that remain open ?	why are locker numbers that are perfect squares the only ones that remain open ?
3 x 3 = 9 , but the 3 can only be counted once . therefore , every locker that is a perfect square will remain open . you know that these ten lockers are the solution , so you open them immediately and read the words inside : `` the code is the first five lockers touched only twice . ''	what is the first locker to remain open ?	what is the first locker to remain open ?
3 x 3 = 9 , but the 3 can only be counted once . therefore , every locker that is a perfect square will remain open . you know that these ten lockers are the solution , so you open them immediately and read the words inside : `` the code is the first five lockers touched only twice . ''	what is the second locker to remain open ?	what is the second locker to remain open ?
3 x 3 = 9 , but the 3 can only be counted once . therefore , every locker that is a perfect square will remain open . you know that these ten lockers are the solution , so you open them immediately and read the words inside : `` the code is the first five lockers touched only twice . ''	what is the pattern of the numbers of the lockers that remain open ?	what is the pattern of the numbers of the lockers that remain open ?
well , it 's made from tomatoes , pulverized , smashed , thrashed , utterly destroyed tomatoes . see these tiny particles ? this is what remains of tomatoes cells after they go through the ketchup treatment .	we show the tomato particles in the video as perfectly spherical , like billiard balls . do you think they are like this in real life ? what are some of the differences between tomato particles and really tiny billiard balls ?	we show the tomato particles in the video as perfectly spherical , like billiard balls . do you think they are like this in real life ? what are some of the differences between tomato particles and really tiny billiard balls ?
it 's important to note two things about them . first , not all cults are religious . some are political , therapy-based , focused on self-improvement , or otherwise .	all cults are religious .	all cults are religious .
and sugar is n't just in candies and desserts , it 's also added to tomato sauce , yogurt , dried fruit , flavored waters , or granola bars . since sugar is everywhere , it 's important to understand how it affects the brain . what happens when sugar hits your tongue ?	what important chemical in the brain is changed in response to sugar ingestion ?	what important chemical in the brain is changed in response to sugar ingestion ?
the fundamental cause of this problem is largely invisible to most of us . i mean , if co2 was black , we would have dealt with this issue a long time ago . so co2 touches every part of our lives — our cars , the places we work , the food we eat .	why does the researcher believe that if co2 was black we would have dealt with it by now ?	why does the researcher believe that if co2 was black we would have dealt with it by now ?
europium is an element which , when you excite the atoms or excite the electrons in the atoms , gives out very nice red coloured light . ok , so europium is pretty much in the middle of the lanthanide series . perhaps its most famous use is in television screens .	thanks to its chemistry , europium is easier to isolate than the other lanthanides , so investigators know a little more about it . which is the stable , low oxidation state that europium shares with samarium , but not the other lanthanides ?	thanks to its chemistry , europium is easier to isolate than the other lanthanides , so investigators know a little more about it . which is the stable , low oxidation state that europium shares with samarium , but not the other lanthanides ?
of the estimated 20 billion individual birds that comprise the fall population , only about half will return to breed the following spring . almost one billion of these deaths are attributed just to building collisions . with such astounding yearly losses , humans risk more than just the loss of the beautiful colors and songs of birds , they also play an important role in the ecosystem .	building collisions are responsible for nearly _____ bird deaths every year .	building collisions are responsible for nearly _____ bird deaths every year .
now , look at this fork . are you paying attention ? our last theory is divided attention , and it states that déjà vu occurs when our brain subliminally takes in an environment while we 're distracted by one particular object . when our attention returns , we feel as if we 've been here before .	the theory of divided attention asserts that our brain subliminally takes in an environment while we ’ re ______ .	the theory of divided attention asserts that our brain subliminally takes in an environment while we ’ re ______ .
if you want to know the momentum better , you need a bigger wave packet , which means a bigger position uncertainty . that 's the heisenberg uncertainty principle , first stated by german physicist werner heisenberg back in 1927 . this uncertainty is n't a matter of measuring well or badly , but an inevitable result of combining particle and wave nature .	find an example of someone referring to the heisenberg uncertainty principle in a non-physics context ( for example , as a metaphor in sports or political commentary ) . explain whether they used it properly , and how they may have done a better job .	find an example of someone referring to the heisenberg uncertainty principle in a non-physics context ( for example , as a metaphor in sports or political commentary ) . explain whether they used it properly , and how they may have done a better job .
and , of course , neuroscience , i 've always been fascinated with neuroscience , but i never understood that i had to figure out why do the neurons fire , what about the environment helps us to learn , and all of those really contribute to making robots a little bit smarter . and so , some of the things that i do -- and this is just a little snapshot -- one of the things is mirroring . so they say our ability to look in a mirror and wave and actually recognize that the person on the other side is us , that self-awareness , is a sign of intelligence , and that allows us to then look at someone pitch a ball and figure out , `` ok , i know how to pitch a ball , i 'm going to mirror their improvement . ''	what is not an example of mirroring ?	what is not an example of mirroring ?
obviously einsteinium has a slight resonance for me because many people think that i look like einstein , though of course einstein , when he was young , looked nothing like me . einsteinium , the first time that was discovered was actually in the debris of a nuclear bomb , which has then prompted people to make it in a more rational and less destructive method ever since .	what did albert einstein have to do with einsteinium ?	what did albert einstein have to do with einsteinium ?
copper is found as a metal lying around in various places in the world . i believe the name came from the island of cyprus in the middle of the mediterranean , but copper has always been know even in pre-historic times people found small amounts of copper . but as we use more and more copper people have had to dig deeper and deeper mines .	what mediterranean island gave its name to copper ?	what mediterranean island gave its name to copper ?
metamorphosis means the larvae and adults of one species will never compete for the same resource , so they successfully share an ecological niche without limiting their own success . this process is so efficient that an incredible 86 % of insect species undergo complete metamorphosis . we 're big and they 're small , so it 's easy to forget that these critters are moving in their millions all around us , all the time .	which of the following list the stages of complete metamorphosis in the correct order ?	which of the following list the stages of complete metamorphosis in the correct order ?
well , antimatter is n't just sitting around , ready for us to harvest . we have to make antimatter before we can combust antimatter , and it takes a billion times more energy to make antimatter than you get back . but , what if there was some antimatter in outer space and we could dig it out one day from an antiplanet somewhere .	discuss the main steps to make and to store antiprotons .	discuss the main steps to make and to store antiprotons .
complex data is more easily interpreted through visualization , and one of the ways that demographers represent the internal distribution of a population is the population pyramid . here , the data is divided by gender with females on one side and males on the other . the population numbers are shown for each five-year age interval , starting from 0-4 and continuing up to 100 and up .	why might a certain age group have more females than males ?	why might a certain age group have more females than males ?
in the 18th century , swedish botanist carolus linnaeus designed the flower clock , a timepiece made of flowering plants that bloom and close at specific times of day . linnaeus 's plan was n't perfect , but the idea behind it was correct .	what was the flower clock ?	what was the flower clock ?
plague lethality is an accident , a misunderstanding , because the germs that cause them do n't know they 're in humans ; they think they 're in this . plagues come from animals . whooping cough comes from pigs , as does flu , as well as from birds .	plagues come from animals but so rarely that in order for a plague to be created , the odds of infection have to be heightened . what can raise the odds of infection ?	plagues come from animals but so rarely that in order for a plague to be created , the odds of infection have to be heightened . what can raise the odds of infection ?
we have n't lost track of it since . today , we 've discovered hundreds of thousands of asteroids . many , including ceres , orbit the sun between mars and jupiter , while near-earth asteroids orbit the sun relatively close to earth . when we recorded this narration , astronomers had discovered 16,407 near-earth asteroids , but since we find new asteroids all the time , that number will have grown by hundreds or thousands by the time you watch this .	through telescopes on earth , asteroids look like :	through telescopes on earth , asteroids look like :
thanks neil . bromine is also quite a common element in the world . it is found in sea water as bromide , it ’ s also found particularly in the dead sea between israel and jordan where there are very concentrated solutions of bromide . so you can make bromine just by bubbling chlorine into a solution of bromide like dead sea water and the chlorine displaces the bromine and forms chloride and the bromine just comes out as red fumes which you can catch .	bromine is found in seawater as bromide , but where in the world can you find very concentrated solutions of bromide ?	bromine is found in seawater as bromide , but where in the world can you find very concentrated solutions of bromide ?
but because it 's a mental illness , it can be a lot harder to understand than , say , high cholesterol . one major source of confusion is the difference between having depression and just feeling depressed . almost everyone feels down from time to time .	involuntary hospitalization , a last resort for the treatment of major depression , is reserved for individuals whose safety is immediately at risk . how can society balance respect for personal freedom with mandatory hospitalization ?	involuntary hospitalization , a last resort for the treatment of major depression , is reserved for individuals whose safety is immediately at risk . how can society balance respect for personal freedom with mandatory hospitalization ?
[ goproject films ] [ traffic sounds ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i discovered working with tea really by accident . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i spilled the tea on a drawing . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i look at them , and i read them like somebody would read coffee beans .	what kind of tea does slobodan use to create his drawings ?	what kind of tea does slobodan use to create his drawings ?
do you see that little number two in the equation ? any number that you put in there is the number of years that you are waiting , also known as the period . sure , timmy , we can see how much you 'll have in five years .	the number of years of a particular investment is also known as ________ .	the number of years of a particular investment is also known as ________ .
take ice , for example . ice , a solid , melts to become water , a liquid , which , when heated , vaporizes into steam , a gas . continued heating of the steam at a high enough temperature causes the water molecules in it to separate into freely roaming hydrogen and oxygen atoms . with a little more heat , the ionization process occurs and the negatively charged electrons escape the atoms , leaving behind positively charged ions .	when gases are heated enough , what happens ?	when gases are heated enough , what happens ?
shockingly , they all keep their vow of secrecy . that could never happen today , not even for an hour-long meeting . someone would share `` james madison thinks he 's so smart .	the document drafted by the convention delegates did not originally apply to women or people of color but , through amendments and supreme court decisions , has evolved to include many such groups . how do you think the framers would react to these changes if you could speak with them today ?	the document drafted by the convention delegates did not originally apply to women or people of color but , through amendments and supreme court decisions , has evolved to include many such groups . how do you think the framers would react to these changes if you could speak with them today ?
so we have to be able to measure the energy we consume and use , and we do so with a unit called the calorie . one calorie , the kind we measure in food , also called a large calorie , is defined as the amount of energy it would take to raise the temperature of one kilogram of water by one degree celsius . everything we consume has a calorie count , a measure of how much energy the item stores in its chemical bonds .	try doing a little research on calories . look up the average amount in these five food items : an apple , a slice of bread , a chocolate chip cookie , a slice of cheese and a soft drink . compare them with one another . which one is the most energy-rich , and which one has the least energy ?	try doing a little research on calories . look up the average amount in these five food items : an apple , a slice of bread , a chocolate chip cookie , a slice of cheese and a soft drink . compare them with one another . which one is the most energy-rich , and which one has the least energy ?
this means that there are , at any given time , multiple factors that shape what is true . in order to acknowledge complexity in your writing , refrain from making broad generalizations about a text or establishing quick , simple judgements about a character . explore each facet of your subject carefully and make sure to consider multiple influences on events .	why should complexity be acknowledged when writing about literature ?	why should complexity be acknowledged when writing about literature ?
the printed page will decompose . hard drive storage will deteriorate . even stones will eventually crumble .	are there any ethical questions to consider when we discuss using living organisms as data storage units ?	are there any ethical questions to consider when we discuss using living organisms as data storage units ?
indian mathematicians called it the staircase of mount meru . in iran , it 's the khayyam triangle . and in china , it 's yang hui 's triangle .	what is the triangle known as in iran ?	what is the triangle known as in iran ?
so the deal about the ocean is that to explore it , you 've got to have technology . not only technology , but it 's not just dave gallo or one person exploring , it 's a team of people . you 've got to have the talent , the team .	what was the most incredible statistic , organism , or geological feature that gallo shared in his talk ?	what was the most incredible statistic , organism , or geological feature that gallo shared in his talk ?
so the deal about the ocean is that to explore it , you 've got to have technology . not only technology , but it 's not just dave gallo or one person exploring , it 's a team of people . you 've got to have the talent , the team .	gallo notes that deep-sea exploration is a team effort , even if only one or two people actually travel in a submersible . what other kinds of personnel do you think you ’ d need to carry out an expedition like the ones gallo describes ? which role ( s ) are most appealing to you , and why ?	gallo notes that deep-sea exploration is a team effort , even if only one or two people actually travel in a submersible . what other kinds of personnel do you think you ’ d need to carry out an expedition like the ones gallo describes ? which role ( s ) are most appealing to you , and why ?
after many naval battles , britain tried to stay in control of the seas , above the water at least ! germany were on the attack with the u-boat submarines adding a new dimension to naval warfare ; they could attack without warning ! they sank many ships including the ship the lusitania and because this broke loads of war rules , it ultimately influenced the united states of america to enter the war ... two years later !	what did germany use in the water to attack british vessels ?	what did germany use in the water to attack british vessels ?
keep going and you 'll wind up with something like this , though really pascal 's triangle goes on infinitely . now , each row corresponds to what 's called the coefficients of a binomial expansion of the form ( x+y ) ^n , where n is the number of the row , and we start counting from zero . so if you make n=2 and expand it , you get ( x^2 ) + 2xy + ( y^2 ) . the coefficients , or numbers in front of the variables , are the same as the numbers in that row of pascal 's triangle .	the sum of elements in the row n=2 is the square of _____ .	the sum of elements in the row n=2 is the square of _____ .
it grows different structures on each side , eventually turning into the familiar asymmetric heart . meanwhile , the other major organs emerge from a central tube and grow towards their ultimate positions . but some organisms , like pigs , do n't have those embryonic cilia and still have asymmetric internal organs . could all cells be intrinsically asymmetric ? probably .	at the node , towards which direction does the fluid flow , leading to the asymmetric positioning of internal organs ?	at the node , towards which direction does the fluid flow , leading to the asymmetric positioning of internal organs ?
cerium is one of only two elements which , if you strike it , will make sparks . one of them is iron and the other one is cerium .	cerium is one of only 2 elements which , if you strike it , will create sparks . which is the other element in the periodic table with this property ?	cerium is one of only 2 elements which , if you strike it , will create sparks . which is the other element in the periodic table with this property ?
we hear about calories all the time . how many calories are in this cookie ? how many are burned by 100 jumping jacks , or long distance running , or fidgeting ?	calories are :	calories are :
female orangutans even stay with their mothers into their teen years to learn child-rearing . as they grow up , orangutans also develop a complex set of cooperative social skills by interacting with their peers and siblings . much like ourselves , young orangutans involuntarily mimic the facial expressions and emotions of their playmates , with behaviors that closely parallel human smiling and laughter . once they finally venture out on their own , orangutans continue to develop their resourcefulness , putting the skills they 've learned into practice .	why do you think an orangutan ’ s ability to mimic its playmate ’ s facial expressions is important for developing social skills ?	why do you think an orangutan ’ s ability to mimic its playmate ’ s facial expressions is important for developing social skills ?
and it 's not just behavioral symptoms . depression has physical manifestations inside the brain . first of all , there are changes that could be seen with the naked eye and x-ray vision .	what do you call a specialized cell that transmits nerve impulses in the brain ?	what do you call a specialized cell that transmits nerve impulses in the brain ?
if a stone gets big enough to actually block the flow of urine , it can create an infection , or back flow , and damage the kidneys themselves . but most kidney stones do n't become this serious , or even require invasive treatment . masses less than five millimeters in diameter will usually pass out of the body on their own .	what is the best treatment for small size (	what is the best treatment for small size (
the answer is given by this formula : distance equals step size times the square root of the number of steps . so if you were taking a random walk from your front door with a one meter stride each second , it would take you a million steps and eleven days just to travel one kilometer . so then how long does it take for a photon generated in the center of the sun to reach you ?	list the zones of the sun from the exterior to the interior . give one characteristic of each layer .	list the zones of the sun from the exterior to the interior . give one characteristic of each layer .
america thanks you , field museum . natural history museums windows into the past have solved many other scientific mysteries . museum scientists have used their collections to sequence the neanderthal genome , discover genes that gave mammoths red fur , and even pinpoint where ancient giant sharks gave birth .	changes that take place gradually are difficult to observe over only a few decades . however , natural history museums can help . how ?	changes that take place gradually are difficult to observe over only a few decades . however , natural history museums can help . how ?
these peppers measure between 1.5 and 2 million scoville heat units , which is about half the units found in pepper spray . so , why would anyone want to eat something that causes such high levels of pain ? nobody really knows when or why humans started eating hot peppers . archaeologists have found spices like mustard along with human artifacts dating as far back as 23,000 years ago .	what do you think would happen if you held your nose while eating something really spicy ?	what do you think would happen if you held your nose while eating something really spicy ?
even though you can calculate the theoretical probability of each outcome , you might not get the expected results if you examine just a few events . but if you repeat those random events many , many , many times , the frequency of a specific outcome , like a player two win , will approach its theoretical probability , that value we got by writing down all the possibilities and counting up the ones for each outcome . so , if you sat on that desert island playing dice forever , player two would eventually win 56 % of the games , and player one would win 44 % . but by then , of course , the banana would be long gone .	if we roll 40 times , how many rolls would you expect to win ? leave your calculations here showing how you solved the question .	if we roll 40 times , how many rolls would you expect to win ? leave your calculations here showing how you solved the question .
so in the equation representing their relationship , stiffness and natural frequency are proportional to one another , while mass and natural frequency are inversely proportional . what happened in mexico city was an effect called resonance , where the frequency of the earthquake 's seismic waves happen to match the natural frequency of the midsized buildings . like a well-timed push on a swingset , each additional seismic wave amplified the building 's vibration in its current direction , causing it to swing even further back , and so on , eventually reaching a far greater extent than the initial displacement . today , engineers work with geologists and seismologists to predict the frequency of earthquake motions at building sites in order to prevent resonance-induced collapses , taking into account factors such as soil type and fault type , as well as data from previous quakes . low frequencies of motion will cause more damage to taller and more flexible buildings , while high frequencies of motion pose more threat to structures that are shorter and stiffer .	resonance occurs when two motions match , thus causing the amplitude of the motions to increase . ground motions due to earthquakes can cause a building to displace by a large amount . pushing someone on a swing is another example of resonance – if you push the person at the correct rate the arc of the swing will increase . what are some other examples of resonance ? how does resonance affect these different systems ?	resonance occurs when two motions match , thus causing the amplitude of the motions to increase . ground motions due to earthquakes can cause a building to displace by a large amount . pushing someone on a swing is another example of resonance – if you push the person at the correct rate the arc of the swing will increase . what are some other examples of resonance ? how does resonance affect these different systems ?
tamino eventually finds pamina at sarastro 's temple , but behind enemy lines , tamino and pamina learn that they 're on the wrong side . the queen of night actually wants to plunge the world into darkness . everything tamino thought he knew was wrong , filling him with doubt and confusion .	the queen of the night ''	the queen of the night ''
did you know that every time musicians pick up their instruments , there are fireworks going off all over their brain ? on the outside , they may look calm and focused , reading the music and making the precise and practiced movements required .	neuroscientists get excited about watching the brain functions of musicians because ?	neuroscientists get excited about watching the brain functions of musicians because ?
currently working for grassroots soccer as the port elizabeth project coordinator , titie is a key facilitator in raising hiv ? aids awareness among youth and people of her community . she believes that this is a fight for the world . www.globalonenessproject.org	in 2010 , which country hosted the world cup ?	in 2010 , which country hosted the world cup ?
the buddha awoke by recognising that all of creation , from distraught ants to dying human beings , is unified by suffering . recognising this , the buddha discovered how to best approach suffering . first , one shouldn ’ t bathe in luxury , nor abstain from food and comforts altogether .	what does the word `` buddha '' mean ?	what does the word `` buddha '' mean ?
the buddha awoke by recognising that all of creation , from distraught ants to dying human beings , is unified by suffering . recognising this , the buddha discovered how to best approach suffering . first , one shouldn ’ t bathe in luxury , nor abstain from food and comforts altogether .	according to the buddha , what happens when we see suffering as something that we have in common with all living things ?	according to the buddha , what happens when we see suffering as something that we have in common with all living things ?
america was free ! and men like john adams thought we would celebrate that date forever . but it was two days later that the gentlemen in congress voted to adopt the declaration of independence , largely written by thomas jefferson , offering all the reasons why the country should be free .	according to the lesson , john adams thought americans would celebrate its independence on :	according to the lesson , john adams thought americans would celebrate its independence on :
why do we remember some things , and not others ? and why do memories eventually fade ? let 's look at how memories form in the first place .	we can do the following to preserve our memories except :	we can do the following to preserve our memories except :
however , only when we look deeper , under the water , are we able to focus on the common values that connect us . in what seems to be an increasingly troubled world , where social and political systems are being stretched , conflict within and between countries is at times heightened , while human rights are being ignored , this desire for peace grows ever stronger . sometimes we see this common value emerging above the surface and becoming visible .	jenkins lists a few ways the world seems to be increasingly troubled . however , she states that the desire for peace is growing ever stronger . what is the example she gives to support her argument ?	jenkins lists a few ways the world seems to be increasingly troubled . however , she states that the desire for peace is growing ever stronger . what is the example she gives to support her argument ?
how do you really know you exist ? in his `` meditations on first philosophy , '' rené descartes tried to answer that very question , demolishing all his preconceived notions and opinions to begin again from the foundations . all his knowledge had come from his sensory perceptions of the world . same as you , right ?	descartes rules out emotions and intuition as foundations for discovering truth . does this provide a fair understanding of human knowledge ?	descartes rules out emotions and intuition as foundations for discovering truth . does this provide a fair understanding of human knowledge ?
it continuously moves between neighboring bonds . as the energy moves , the energy configuration can change . because of the distribution of microstates , there 's a 21 % chance that the system will later be in the configuration in which the energy is maximally spread out , there 's a 13 % chance that it will return to its starting point , and an 8 % chance that a will actually gain energy .	a system must evolve toward an energy configuration where the energy is maximally spread out .	a system must evolve toward an energy configuration where the energy is maximally spread out .
it continuously moves between neighboring bonds . as the energy moves , the energy configuration can change . because of the distribution of microstates , there 's a 21 % chance that the system will later be in the configuration in which the energy is maximally spread out , there 's a 13 % chance that it will return to its starting point , and an 8 % chance that a will actually gain energy .	the likelihood that a system will evolve toward and energy configuration where the energy is maximally spread out is independent of the size of the system .	the likelihood that a system will evolve toward and energy configuration where the energy is maximally spread out is independent of the size of the system .
it continuously moves between neighboring bonds . as the energy moves , the energy configuration can change . because of the distribution of microstates , there 's a 21 % chance that the system will later be in the configuration in which the energy is maximally spread out , there 's a 13 % chance that it will return to its starting point , and an 8 % chance that a will actually gain energy .	given that energy configuration a has 11,460 microstates and energy configuration has 3,820 microstates , how does the probability of energy configuration a occurring compare to the probability of b occurring ?	given that energy configuration a has 11,460 microstates and energy configuration has 3,820 microstates , how does the probability of energy configuration a occurring compare to the probability of b occurring ?
it continuously moves between neighboring bonds . as the energy moves , the energy configuration can change . because of the distribution of microstates , there 's a 21 % chance that the system will later be in the configuration in which the energy is maximally spread out , there 's a 13 % chance that it will return to its starting point , and an 8 % chance that a will actually gain energy .	systems move toward thermal equilibrium because , they move toward the energy configuration :	systems move toward thermal equilibrium because , they move toward the energy configuration :
how will you survive ? you might be surprised to find out how much geography skills can help you fend off doom . by geography , i mean analyzing the world around you . one geographic concept that could really help you out in a zombie apocalypse is movement .	geography is :	geography is :
oxytocin is thought to play a big role in promoting close social bonds , so gratitude is part of the glue that keeps these relationships together . so if you think it ’ s the thought that counts , think again . science shows there are some pretty amazing benefits to our mind , body and relationships when we say those two small words – thank you .	5. is it `` the thought that counts ? '' or should you express your gratitude differently ? what do you think ?	5. is it `` the thought that counts ? '' or should you express your gratitude differently ? what do you think ?
oxytocin is thought to play a big role in promoting close social bonds , so gratitude is part of the glue that keeps these relationships together . so if you think it ’ s the thought that counts , think again . science shows there are some pretty amazing benefits to our mind , body and relationships when we say those two small words – thank you .	6. stop for a moment and think ! list three things you are grateful for right now ! explain why .	6. stop for a moment and think ! list three things you are grateful for right now ! explain why .
in fact the majority of us use carbon in the form of fuels every day to get to work or to go home . without carbon we could n't exist . you 're carbon , i 'm carbon , we have bones made that of calcium . but the important parts of our brains contain largely carbon .	there are several allotropes of carbon in the professor 's suitcase : graphite , diamond , fullerenes , and nanotubes . the 2010 nobel prize for physics was awarded for the discovery of another allotrope of carbon , which is a single sheet of graphite . what is its name ?	there are several allotropes of carbon in the professor 's suitcase : graphite , diamond , fullerenes , and nanotubes . the 2010 nobel prize for physics was awarded for the discovery of another allotrope of carbon , which is a single sheet of graphite . what is its name ?
in fact the majority of us use carbon in the form of fuels every day to get to work or to go home . without carbon we could n't exist . you 're carbon , i 'm carbon , we have bones made that of calcium . but the important parts of our brains contain largely carbon .	the electrical conductivity of carbon materials increases according to which order ?	the electrical conductivity of carbon materials increases according to which order ?
in 1955 , scientists at uc berkeley successfully created 17 atoms of a previously undiscovered element . this element filled an empty spot in the perodic table at number 101 , and was officially named mendelevium in 1963 . there have been well over 800 nobel prize winners , but only 15 scientists have an element named after them .	in 1963 , what did scientists officially name the element at 101 on the periodic table ?	in 1963 , what did scientists officially name the element at 101 on the periodic table ?
who during the second world war was working in canada on plutonium chemistry . and one night he managed to spill the entire uk 's supply of plutonium . which was only 10 milligrams onto the bench in the lab .	what was the mass of the entire uk ’ s supply of plutonium that the professor ’ s lecturer , alfie maddock , managed to spill one night onto the lab bench during world war ii ?	what was the mass of the entire uk ’ s supply of plutonium that the professor ’ s lecturer , alfie maddock , managed to spill one night onto the lab bench during world war ii ?
outlets like reuters and the associated press that aggregate or rereport stories were relatively rare compared to today . the speed with which information spreads now has created the ideal conditions for a phenomenon known as circular reporting . this is when publication a publishes misinformation , publication b reprints it , and publication a then cites b as the source for the information .	what are some ways you can avoid falling for false information , and avoid contributing to the cycle of circular reporting ?	what are some ways you can avoid falling for false information , and avoid contributing to the cycle of circular reporting ?
in fact , scientists say entomophagy could be a cost-effective solution for developing countries that are food insecure . insects can contain up to 80 % protein , the body 's vital building blocks , and are also high in energy-rich fat , fiber , and micronutrients like vitamins and minerals . did you know that most edible insects contain the same amount or even more mineral iron than beef , making them a huge , untapped resource when you consider that iron deficiency is currently the most common nutritional problem in the world ?	some insects are made of up to 80 % protein .	some insects are made of up to 80 % protein .
can you grow a human bone outside the human body ? the answer may soon be yes , but before we can understand how that 's possible , we need to look at how bones grow naturally inside the body .	how do we grow bones in the lab ? what are the key factors to help cells grow outside the body ?	how do we grow bones in the lab ? what are the key factors to help cells grow outside the body ?
fluorine is slowly released ; you see the pressure slowly going up . the reason that people know about fluorine is that it is one of the really reactive elements . it will react with all the elements of the periodic table , except neon and helium . it will react with gold , it ’ ll react with silver , it ’ ll react with platinum .	fluorine is the most reactive element ; it reacts with almost all of the elements in the periodic table , but it does n't react with which two elements ?	fluorine is the most reactive element ; it reacts with almost all of the elements in the periodic table , but it does n't react with which two elements ?
why do n't we get unicellular elephants , or blue whales , or brown bears ? to find out , we have to peer into a cell 's guts . this is where most of the cell 's functions occur , enclosed by a cellular membrane that acts as the doorway into and out of the cell . any resources the cell needs to consume , or waste products it needs to expel , first have to pass through this membrane . but there 's a biological quirk in this set up .	imagine twenty people in a room with only a single doorway . the room represents the guts of the cell and the doorway represents the cell membrane . this means that everything the people in the room need or need to get rid of to survive must pass through that doorway . list all of the things that would need to pass into and out of that room for all of the people to survive for a week .	imagine twenty people in a room with only a single doorway . the room represents the guts of the cell and the doorway represents the cell membrane . this means that everything the people in the room need or need to get rid of to survive must pass through that doorway . list all of the things that would need to pass into and out of that room for all of the people to survive for a week .
to biologists and paleontologists , this creature was a very old and fascinating but entirely extinct fish , forever fossilized . that is , until 1938 when marjorie courtenay-latimer , a curator at a south african museum , came across a prehistoric looking , gleaming blue fish hauled up at the nearby docks . she had a hunch that this strange , 1.5 meter long specimen was important but could n't preserve it in time to be studied and had it taxidermied .	what happened in 1938 ?	what happened in 1938 ?
it is found in sea water as bromide , it ’ s also found particularly in the dead sea between israel and jordan where there are very concentrated solutions of bromide . so you can make bromine just by bubbling chlorine into a solution of bromide like dead sea water and the chlorine displaces the bromine and forms chloride and the bromine just comes out as red fumes which you can catch . so neil ’ s now using a glass knife to open the ampoule and he ’ s going to pour the liquid bromine into this small evaporating dish inside our fume hood .	how can you obtain bromine from bromide solution ?	how can you obtain bromine from bromide solution ?
what is at the center of the universe ? it 's an essential question that humans have been wondering about for centuries .	in the video , most of the astronomers , scientists , and philosophers had ideas about the universe that we now know where not entirely correct . in what ways do you think ideas that have turned out to be “ wrong ” are valuable in developing our understanding of the universe ?	in the video , most of the astronomers , scientists , and philosophers had ideas about the universe that we now know where not entirely correct . in what ways do you think ideas that have turned out to be “ wrong ” are valuable in developing our understanding of the universe ?
what is at the center of the universe ? it 's an essential question that humans have been wondering about for centuries .	so now that you know that in our expanding universe we can ’ t locate a center , what would you say are the three most important scientific contributions mentioned in the video that helped us get to that answer ? justify each of your selections .	so now that you know that in our expanding universe we can ’ t locate a center , what would you say are the three most important scientific contributions mentioned in the video that helped us get to that answer ? justify each of your selections .
what is at the center of the universe ? it 's an essential question that humans have been wondering about for centuries .	what did aristotle and most of the ancient greeks think was at the center of the universe ?	what did aristotle and most of the ancient greeks think was at the center of the universe ?
what is at the center of the universe ? it 's an essential question that humans have been wondering about for centuries .	what do scientists now believe about the center of the universe ?	what do scientists now believe about the center of the universe ?
and unlike a camera , you briefly stop seeing whenever you make a larger movement with your eyes . that 's why you ca n't see your own eyes shift as you look from one to the other in a mirror . video cameras can capture details our eyes miss , magnify distant objects and accurately record what they see . but our eyes are remarkably efficient adaptations , the result of hundreds of millions of years of coevolution with our brains .	when following the development of objects designed by humans we often see that big leaps are made using totally different approaches and materials . for example pens used to be made from feathers and were dipped into a jar of ink , then ballpoint and felt tip pens were developed . in living organisms , we see gradual change and the use of preexisting structures for new purposes but no radically new approaches . for example , the small bones in our ears originated from jaw bones , they did n't just appear magically on their own . what examples can you see of this contrast between purposeful design and evolution when you look at the development of cameras and the evolution of the eye ?	when following the development of objects designed by humans we often see that big leaps are made using totally different approaches and materials . for example pens used to be made from feathers and were dipped into a jar of ink , then ballpoint and felt tip pens were developed . in living organisms , we see gradual change and the use of preexisting structures for new purposes but no radically new approaches . for example , the small bones in our ears originated from jaw bones , they did n't just appear magically on their own . what examples can you see of this contrast between purposeful design and evolution when you look at the development of cameras and the evolution of the eye ?
in fact , the government actively encouraged historians to produce accounts that disputed the city 's african origins . over time , however , an overwhelming body of evidence mounted , identifying great zimbabwe as an african city built by africans . during the 1960s and 70s , great zimbabwe became an important symbol for the african nationalist movement that was spreading across the continent . today , the ruins at great zimbabwe , alluded to on the zimbabwean flag by a soapstone bird , still stand as a source of national pride and cultural value .	what symbol of great zimbabwe is featured on the zimbabwean flag today ?	what symbol of great zimbabwe is featured on the zimbabwean flag today ?
food is no exception , but advice on what we should eat is best left to the doctors and nutritionists who are aware of our individual circumstances . diets and food fads are n't inherently wrong . circumstantially , they might even be right , just not for everyone all of the time .	how does your body adjust to the caloric decrease in some diets ?	how does your body adjust to the caloric decrease in some diets ?
these fish are divided into two groups , depending on how much electricity they produce . scientists call the first group the weakly electric fish . structures near their tails called electric organs produce up to a volt of electricity , about two-thirds as much as a aa battery .	which of these is not possible for weakly electric fish ?	which of these is not possible for weakly electric fish ?
this massive cataract carries roughly 116 times more water per second over its edge than the congo river 's inga falls , the largest waterfall by volume on land . the world 's tallest mountain is actually found in the ocean , hiding in plain sight . while 4200 meters of hawaii 's mauna kea sit above sea level , its sides plummet beneath the waves for another 5800 meters .	what is the world ’ s tallest mountain ?	what is the world ’ s tallest mountain ?
`` bobsled ? no way ! '' but after year upon year of not reaching the goals i set for myself in track , it was time for a change .	do you have any goals ? what are obstacles that stand in your way , and what are two specific strategies you can employ to overcome those obstacles and reach your goals ?	do you have any goals ? what are obstacles that stand in your way , and what are two specific strategies you can employ to overcome those obstacles and reach your goals ?
would it be `` the robinsons ' robots , '' or `` the robinsons 's robots '' ? the truth is , even grammar nerds disagree on the right thing to do . the use of 's after a proper noun ending in s is a style issue , not a hard and fast grammar rule . it 's a conundrum without a simple answer .	when it comes to the use of apostrophe-s after a proper noun ending in s , what do you think is the right thing to do ?	when it comes to the use of apostrophe-s after a proper noun ending in s , what do you think is the right thing to do ?
so the calvin cycle generates the precise number of elements and processes required to keep this biochemical production line turning endlessly . and it 's just one of the 100s of cycles present in nature . why so many ?	cycles are beneficial in living systems because :	cycles are beneficial in living systems because :
so does that mean we get just as much benefit going to the gym five days a week as we would joining a team and competing ? well , here 's where it gets interesting : because it turns out that if you can find a sport and a team you like , studies show that there are all sorts of benefits that go beyond the physical and mental benefits of exercise alone . some of the most significant are psychological benefits , both in the short and long term . some of those come from the communal experience of being on a team , for instance , learning to trust and depend on others , to accept help , to give help , and to work together towards a common goal . in addition , commitment to a team and doing something fun can also make it easier to establish a regular habit of exercise . school sport participation has also been shown to reduce the risk of suffering from depression for up to four years .	in addition to building new friendships , what are some other benefits of the communal experience of being on a team ?	in addition to building new friendships , what are some other benefits of the communal experience of being on a team ?
and then there 's a condition called trimethylaminuria , which has absolutely no symptoms , except that it makes you smell like rotten fish . and those are just diseases that humans can smell . dogs can actually sniff out certain types of cancer , and scientists have now created electronic noses .	in the video , anna mentioned that dogs can smell diseases that humans can not . do you think there are other animals that can smell human diseases ?	in the video , anna mentioned that dogs can smell diseases that humans can not . do you think there are other animals that can smell human diseases ?
and this is the perfect storm for forming a pimple . cortisol is a major stress hormone involved in making skin cells churn out oily lipids from special glands called sebaceous glands . but when there 's too much of these oily lipids , called sebum , they can plug up the swollen , inflamed pores and trap the pesky , acne-causing bacteria inside , where they set up house and thrive .	what skin glands produce the oily lipids called sebum ?	what skin glands produce the oily lipids called sebum ?
and this is the perfect storm for forming a pimple . cortisol is a major stress hormone involved in making skin cells churn out oily lipids from special glands called sebaceous glands . but when there 's too much of these oily lipids , called sebum , they can plug up the swollen , inflamed pores and trap the pesky , acne-causing bacteria inside , where they set up house and thrive .	what major stress hormone increases inflammation and makes sebaceous glands produce more oil in the skin ?	what major stress hormone increases inflammation and makes sebaceous glands produce more oil in the skin ?
robert burton , born in 1577 , spent his life studying the causes and experience of sadness . in his masterpiece `` the anatomy of melancholy , '' burton wrote , `` he that increaseth wisdom increaseth sorrow . '' the romantic poets of the early 19th century believed melancholy allows us to more deeply understand other profound emotions , like beauty and joy .	in robert burton ’ s “ the anatomy of melancholy , ” burton explores an idea from the old testament that , “ he who increaseth wisdom increaseth sorrow. ” what is the meaning of this phrase ?	in robert burton ’ s “ the anatomy of melancholy , ” burton explores an idea from the old testament that , “ he who increaseth wisdom increaseth sorrow. ” what is the meaning of this phrase ?
all so different in form and function , but amazingly the same in how their form and function are determined . first , all these organisms are made of one or more cells , and every cell of every living thing on earth contains all the information it takes to create and duplicate and make variations of itself . that information is stored in a very long but quite simple double molecule called dna , or deoxyribonucleic acid .	every cell of every living thing on earth contains all the information it needs to create and duplicate and make variations of :	every cell of every living thing on earth contains all the information it needs to create and duplicate and make variations of :
at each spot on the genome , one of the special letters binds to its opposite letter , so we now have a double-stranded piece of dna with a colorful spot at each letter . scientists then take pictures of each snippet of genome . seeing the order of the colors allows us to read the sequence .	what is one way that scientists deal with the problem of how small the genome is ?	what is one way that scientists deal with the problem of how small the genome is ?
he reasoned that since the regions for speech production and comprehension were not adjacent , then injuring the area connecting them might result in a special type of language loss , now known as receptive aphasia . wernicke 's connectionist model helped explain disorders that did n't result from the dysfunction of just one area . modern neuroscience tools reveal a brain more complex than gratiolet , aubertin , or even wernicke imagined .	a model mapping one brain function to one brain area is referred to as :	a model mapping one brain function to one brain area is referred to as :
once the detectors feel a gravitational wave , scientists can extract information about the wave 's source . in a way , detectors like ligo are big gravitational wave radios . radio waves are traveling all around you , but you ca n't feel them or hear the music they carry .	how is a gravitational-wave detector like ligo similar to a radio ?	how is a gravitational-wave detector like ligo similar to a radio ?
it makes sense because gratitude is often thought of as a moral emotion . there are even benefits in just noting how grateful you are . another study asked people to write down three things that went well that day and why for one week . at the end of the week people were slightly happier than at the beginning , and over time , their happiness scores kept improving .	7. who are you grateful for or to ? take a few minutes and write them a personal note . consider delivering it .	7. who are you grateful for or to ? take a few minutes and write them a personal note . consider delivering it .
we have to carry the kind of labs that people have whole rooms devoted to on earth inside of , essentially , a small car . and we shrunk it all down to something that weighs about as much as i do , and then put it inside of this rover that weighs as much as your car does . and that rover is now on the surface of mars , but it 's so heavy , and so it kind of takes a special challenge for us to make it all work and come together .	approximately how much does curiosity weigh ?	approximately how much does curiosity weigh ?
he gets too big , he gets a little fresh , the adult females had enough of him , but he also is independent , he wants to go out and play with the guys . so what happens then is that you have this all male society , very ritual male society . greg is our main dominant bull here , you can see him in the middle .	why are rituals important in society ?	why are rituals important in society ?
and because they 're suspended within the vitreous humor , the gel-like liquid that fills the inside of your eye , floaters drift along with your eye movements , and seem to bounce a little when your eye stops . floaters may be only barely distinguishable most of the time . they become more visible the closer they are to the retina , just as holding your hand closer to a table with an overhead light will result in a more sharply defined shadow .	floaters are more visible :	floaters are more visible :
so that is how to create a single story , show a people as one thing , as only one thing , over and over again , and that is what they become . it is impossible to talk about the single story without talking about power . there is a word , an igbo word , that i think about whenever i think about the power structures of the world , and it is `` nkali . ''	what is adichie 's call to action at the end of her talk ? ( 18:16 )	what is adichie 's call to action at the end of her talk ? ( 18:16 )
cooked food is rendered soft and predigested outside of the body . our guts more easily absorb its energy . cooking frees up time and provides more energy than if we ate food stuffs raw and so we can sustain brains with 86 billion densely packed neurons . 40 % more than the ape .	how does cooking provide more energy than eating raw foods ?	how does cooking provide more energy than eating raw foods ?
many of the novel 's elements became genre staples inspiring classics and the countless movies they spawned . the gothic label belonged to literature and film until the 1970s when a new musical scene emerged . taking cues from artists like the doors and the velvet underground , british post-punk groups , like joy division , bauhaus , and the cure , combined gloomy lyrics and punk dissonance with imagery inspired by the victorian era , classic horror , and androgynous glam fashion .	contrast the spiritual imagery of gothic cathedrals with that of gothic literature .	contrast the spiritual imagery of gothic cathedrals with that of gothic literature .
many of the novel 's elements became genre staples inspiring classics and the countless movies they spawned . the gothic label belonged to literature and film until the 1970s when a new musical scene emerged . taking cues from artists like the doors and the velvet underground , british post-punk groups , like joy division , bauhaus , and the cure , combined gloomy lyrics and punk dissonance with imagery inspired by the victorian era , classic horror , and androgynous glam fashion .	gothic music emerged out of :	gothic music emerged out of :
when the immune system is under serious attack , it secretes more cytokines , which trigger two responses . first , the vagus nerve , which runs through the body into the brain , quickly transmits the information to the brain stem , passing near an important area of pain processing . second , cytokines travel through the body to the hypothalamus , the part of the brain responsible for controlling temperature , thirst , hunger , and sleep , among other things .	in experiments with rats when the vagus nerve is cut , some of the effects of inflammation are abolished such as depression . however , fever can persist . why do you think this is ?	in experiments with rats when the vagus nerve is cut , some of the effects of inflammation are abolished such as depression . however , fever can persist . why do you think this is ?
their seeds prefer to grow on open sunny ground , which pits saplings against each other as each tries to get more light by growing straighter and faster than its neighbors . over time , generations of slender , lofty lodgepoles form an umbrella-like canopy that shades the forest floor below . but as the trees ' pine cones mature to release their twirling seeds , this signals a problem for the lodgepoles ' future .	mature lodgepoles will form an umbrella-like structure called a ( n ) _________ that shades the forest floor .	mature lodgepoles will form an umbrella-like structure called a ( n ) _________ that shades the forest floor .
in the meantime , orokana has been anxiously awaiting fugōri 's return , her plane fully refueled and ready to go . as soon as his plane touches the ground , she takes off , this time flying east . at this point , exactly 180 minutes have passed and the professor is at the halfway point of his journey with 90 kiloliters of fuel left .	why was time such a critical factor in solving this riddle ?	why was time such a critical factor in solving this riddle ?
the ceiling will only hit you if you can jump up to the ceiling . now consider : what would happen if the elevator accelerated upward and , even more frightening , if someone snuck in and cut the cable holding the elevator , what would happen then ? think about it .	hedden asks us to think about what would happen if someone cut the cable at the top of an elevator . assuming that you would not be injured in any way , explain what would happen if you were inside an elevator ( standing on a scale ) and the cable was cut forcing you to experience a free fall from the top of a 100 story building .	hedden asks us to think about what would happen if someone cut the cable at the top of an elevator . assuming that you would not be injured in any way , explain what would happen if you were inside an elevator ( standing on a scale ) and the cable was cut forcing you to experience a free fall from the top of a 100 story building .
hmm , and you thought you felt lonely ! two : heat death or a big freeze . in a nutshell , the difference between the big rip and heat death is that in a heat death scenario matter stays intact and is converted over an incredibly long but finite period of time into radiation , while the universe expands forever .	in the heat death / big freeze scenario ( 2:55 ) entropy is used to explain how matter decays over time , and spreads out to destroy the universe . explain entropy using a different example than in the video .	in the heat death / big freeze scenario ( 2:55 ) entropy is used to explain how matter decays over time , and spreads out to destroy the universe . explain entropy using a different example than in the video .
so if you slide it away and back up again . and there we have , oh maybe two inches of liquid fluorine . you can go right up that , there ’ s no problem with that if you want to .	what color is liquid fluorine ( surprising the professor when he found out ) ?	what color is liquid fluorine ( surprising the professor when he found out ) ?
the object has to be torn or attached in new places . a donut and a coffee cup look the same to a topologist because they both have one hole . you could reshape a donut into a coffee cup and it would still have just one . that topological property is stable .	which one of the following objects is topologically equivalent to a coffee cup with one handle ?	which one of the following objects is topologically equivalent to a coffee cup with one handle ?
that 's equivalent to the weight of a polar bear balancing on a quarter . now , boyle 's gas law states that the volume of a gas is inversely related to pressure . so , any air-filled spaces , like a rockfish 's swim bladder , or human lungs , will compress as they descend deeper and expand as they ascend .	what does boyle 's gas law state ?	what does boyle 's gas law state ?
the pancreas sits just behind your stomach , an appropriate home , as one of its jobs is to break down the food you eat . it aids digestion by producing a special tonic made of water , sodium bicarbonate , and digestive enzymes . sodium bicarbonate neutralizes the stomach 's natural acidity , so these digestive enzymes can perform their jobs . lipase breaks down fatty substances , protease splits up proteins , and amylase divides carbohydrates to create energy-rich sugars .	by imagining you are a morsel of food entering the digestive system , explain why pancreatic enzymes are so important for helping you achieve your goal of infiltrating the bloodstream with nutrients .	by imagining you are a morsel of food entering the digestive system , explain why pancreatic enzymes are so important for helping you achieve your goal of infiltrating the bloodstream with nutrients .
all the liquid water above ground is surface water and it is a tiny blip of an amount . 0.3 % of all fresh water is surface water . it may seem counterintuitive , but it accounts for little streams all over the planet .	what percentage of water on earth is fresh ?	what percentage of water on earth is fresh ?
all the liquid water above ground is surface water and it is a tiny blip of an amount . 0.3 % of all fresh water is surface water . it may seem counterintuitive , but it accounts for little streams all over the planet .	the world 's fresh water is divided into three categories . which is not one of those categories ?	the world 's fresh water is divided into three categories . which is not one of those categories ?
all the liquid water above ground is surface water and it is a tiny blip of an amount . 0.3 % of all fresh water is surface water . it may seem counterintuitive , but it accounts for little streams all over the planet .	can turning off the water when you brush your teeth make a difference ?	can turning off the water when you brush your teeth make a difference ?
other scholars took up the theme , and the proposed analogies and connections multiplied . they suggested that dorothy 's dog toto represented the teetotalers of the prohibition party . oz was clearly the abbreviation for ounces , an important unit in the silver debate .	according to the most popular interpretation of the book , the tin woodman represented :	according to the most popular interpretation of the book , the tin woodman represented :
like 60 , 12 is a highly composite number that can be divided by two , three , four , and six , making it much better for representing common fractions . in fact , both systems appear in our everyday lives , from how we measure degrees and time , to common measurements , like a dozen or a gross . and , of course , the base two , or binary system , is used in all of our digital devices , though programmers also use base eight and base 16 for more compact notation . so the next time you use a large number , think of the massive quantity captured in just these few symbols , and see if you can come up with a different way to represent it .	when are bases 2 , 8 , and 16 used in our daily life ? ( pick 2 ) a when we measure time b when we program c when we measure angles d when we use our digital devices	when are bases 2 , 8 , and 16 used in our daily life ? ( pick 2 ) a when we measure time b when we program c when we measure angles d when we use our digital devices
each of you will have either a black or a white hat on your head assigned randomly , and i wo n't tell you how many of each color there are . when i say to begin , each of you must guess the color of your hat starting with the person in the back and moving up the line . and do n't even try saying words other than black or white or signaling some other way , like intonation or volume ; you 'll all be eaten immediately .	what is each person trying to guess ?	what is each person trying to guess ?
well , the electron that sodium loses is the one furthest from its nucleus , and the orbital that electron occupies when it goes over to chlorine is also the one furthest from its nucleus . but back to covalent bonding . carbon has four electrons that are free to bond , nitrogen has three , oxygen two .	draw a molecule of hydrogen gas ( h2 ) . using what you know about positive and negative charges , sketch all the forces between all the particles in this system . does it seem reasonable to you that the hydrogen gas molecule should exist and be relatively stable , based on your sketch ? does your sketch raise any new questions about the nature of covalent bonding ?	draw a molecule of hydrogen gas ( h2 ) . using what you know about positive and negative charges , sketch all the forces between all the particles in this system . does it seem reasonable to you that the hydrogen gas molecule should exist and be relatively stable , based on your sketch ? does your sketch raise any new questions about the nature of covalent bonding ?
well , the electron that sodium loses is the one furthest from its nucleus , and the orbital that electron occupies when it goes over to chlorine is also the one furthest from its nucleus . but back to covalent bonding . carbon has four electrons that are free to bond , nitrogen has three , oxygen two .	in a covalent bond , ________ .	in a covalent bond , ________ .
this may allow musicians to solve problems more effectively and creatively , in both academic and social settings . because making music also involves crafting and understanding its emotional content and message , musicians often have higher levels of executive function , a category of interlinked tasks that includes planning , strategizing , and attention to detail and requires simultaneous analysis of both cognitive and emotional aspects . this ability also has an impact on how our memory systems work .	executive function is a series of interlinked tasks that includes planning , strategizing , and attention to ________ .	executive function is a series of interlinked tasks that includes planning , strategizing , and attention to ________ .
this may allow musicians to solve problems more effectively and creatively , in both academic and social settings . because making music also involves crafting and understanding its emotional content and message , musicians often have higher levels of executive function , a category of interlinked tasks that includes planning , strategizing , and attention to detail and requires simultaneous analysis of both cognitive and emotional aspects . this ability also has an impact on how our memory systems work .	executive function is a complex combination of brain functions that requires analysis of both the cognitive and emotional aspects of a problem or situation . what type of complex problems of situations could you think of that would use your executive function capabilities ?	executive function is a complex combination of brain functions that requires analysis of both the cognitive and emotional aspects of a problem or situation . what type of complex problems of situations could you think of that would use your executive function capabilities ?
on a psychological level , we lie partly to paint a better picture of ourselves , connecting our fantasies to the person we wish we were rather than the person we are . but while our brain is busy dreaming , it 's letting plenty of signals slip by . our conscious mind only controls about 5 % of our cognitive function , including communication , while the other 95 % occurs beyond our awareness , and according to the literature on reality monitoring , stories based on imagined experiences are qualitatively different from those based on real experiences .	what percentage of our brain 's communication is conscious ?	what percentage of our brain 's communication is conscious ?
what ’ s the next element ? hassium . i know nothing about hassium , shall we make something up ?	from which german state is the name hassium derived ?	from which german state is the name hassium derived ?
what ’ s the next element ? hassium . i know nothing about hassium , shall we make something up ?	the professor explained that hassium can form an oxide similar to that of osmium ; what is the preferred oxidation state for hassium ?	the professor explained that hassium can form an oxide similar to that of osmium ; what is the preferred oxidation state for hassium ?
what ’ s the next element ? hassium . i know nothing about hassium , shall we make something up ?	as the professor explained , it can not currently be measured , but it could be that hassium has the highest…	as the professor explained , it can not currently be measured , but it could be that hassium has the highest…
honeybees perform complex dances to let other bees know the location and quality of a food source . all of these animals have impressive communication systems , but do they have language ? to answer that question , we can look at four specific qualities that are often associated with language : discreteness , grammar , productivity , and displacement .	why should humans continue to research the communication systems of animals ? what might we learn ?	why should humans continue to research the communication systems of animals ? what might we learn ?
byzantine missionaries created an alphabet for slavic languages based on a modified greek script while rus viking warriors served as the byzantine emperor 's elite guard . for several generations , the kievan rus flourished from its rich resources and trade . its noblemen and noblewomen married prominent european rulers , while residents of some cities enjoyed great culture , literacy , and even democratic freedoms uncommon for the time .	which of the following was not a major contributor to the decline of kievan rus ?	which of the following was not a major contributor to the decline of kievan rus ?
your body typically regulates the speed at which your cells divide , but sometimes , cancer cuts the brake lines , and your cells divide too quickly , accumulating mutations that cause them to veer away from their original function , form dangerous tumors , and land you in the hospital . cancer is basically an inability of the body to control the speed at which cells divide . when cells divide too quickly , they can often accumulate mutations that cause them to ignore their original function in the body , forming tumors .	cancer represents an inability of the body to control ________ .	cancer represents an inability of the body to control ________ .
this increase in velocity will help make sure collisions have the appropriate amount of energy necessary to ensure book-dropping . this is analogous to increasing the temperature of the reaction mixture . higher temperature means particles are moving faster .	in this analogy , shortening the passing periods is analogous to :	in this analogy , shortening the passing periods is analogous to :
experiments had shown that rather than simply being discrete particles , electrons simultaneously behaved like waves , not being confined to a particular point in space . and in formulating his famous uncertainty principle , werner heisenberg showed it was impossible to determine both the exact position and speed of electrons as they moved around an atom . the idea that electrons can not be pinpointed but exist within a range of possible locations gave rise to the current quantum model of the atom , a fascinating theory with a whole new set of complexities whose implications have yet to be fully grasped . even though our understanding of atoms keeps changing , the basic fact of atoms remains , so let 's celebrate the triumph of atomic theory with some fireworks .	who was the first person to come up with the idea of the “ atom ? ”	who was the first person to come up with the idea of the “ atom ? ”
your body is already in a euphoric state . you 're just relabeling the experience . and though the threat response is universal , research shows differences between individuals in how the chemicals associated with the threat response work .	individuals can experience the same situation very differently with some leaving with positive feelings , and others feeling negatively . what are some of the suggested causes for the difference in how people experience frightening things ?	individuals can experience the same situation very differently with some leaving with positive feelings , and others feeling negatively . what are some of the suggested causes for the difference in how people experience frightening things ?
your body is already in a euphoric state . you 're just relabeling the experience . and though the threat response is universal , research shows differences between individuals in how the chemicals associated with the threat response work .	why have humans evolved to experience fear in the manner that we do ? what have been , and are , the benefits to our survival ?	why have humans evolved to experience fear in the manner that we do ? what have been , and are , the benefits to our survival ?
that happens because these works employ a technique called anamorphosis . anamorphosis is a special case of perspective art , where artists represent realistic three-dimensional views on two-dimensional surfaces . though it 's common today , this kind of perspective drawing has only been around since the italian renaissance . ancient art often showed all figures on the same plane , varying in size by symbolic importance .	what are some reasons why artists want to create a work of art in anamorphosis rather than as a traditional perspective drawing ?	what are some reasons why artists want to create a work of art in anamorphosis rather than as a traditional perspective drawing ?
once the meeting had concluded , dobrynin cabled moscow saying time is of the essence and we should n't miss the chance . and at 9 a.m. the next day , a message arrived from khrushchev announcing the soviet missiles would be removed from cuba . the crisis was now over .	some historians disagree about khrushchev ’ s intentions when placing the missiles in cuba . do you believe that the missiles were placed there for defensive or offensive purposes ?	some historians disagree about khrushchev ’ s intentions when placing the missiles in cuba . do you believe that the missiles were placed there for defensive or offensive purposes ?
the lava on hawaii is made of basalt , which once cooled , is highly fertile . within a couple of decades of terrible eruptions , islanders would have seen vibrant green life thriving on new peninsulas made of lava . so it makes sense that the mythology captured this by portraying pele as creator as well as a destroyer .	if you were a god and had the power to move tectonic plates around , what would you do to ameliorate crete 's terrible situation ?	if you were a god and had the power to move tectonic plates around , what would you do to ameliorate crete 's terrible situation ?
but upon his release about a year later , he immediately began to rebuild the movement . and then , in 1929 , the great depression happened . it led to american banks withdrawing their loans from germany , and the already struggling german economy collapsed overnight . hitler took advantage of the people 's anger , offering them convenient scapegoats and a promise to restore germany 's former greatness . mainstream parties proved unable to handle the crisis while left-wing opposition was too fragmented by internal squabbles .	the fact that the nazis had virtually no power in the german government before the great depression , how did this make hitler ’ s rhetoric & promises to restore germany ’ s greatness more attractive to the german people ?	the fact that the nazis had virtually no power in the german government before the great depression , how did this make hitler ’ s rhetoric & promises to restore germany ’ s greatness more attractive to the german people ?
the signs that this immune response is working are the coughing , sneezing , inflammation and fever we experience , which work to trap , deter and rid the body of threatening things , like bacteria . these innate immune responses also trigger our second line of defense , called adaptive immunity . special cells called b cells and t cells are recruited to fight microbes , and also record information about them , creating a memory of what the invaders look like , and how best to fight them .	what is the function of innate immune response ?	what is the function of innate immune response ?
the sight of mistletoe may either send you scurrying , or if you have your eye on someone , awaiting an opportunity beneath its snow white berries , but how did the festive christmas tradition of kissing under mistletoe come about ? the long-lived custom intertwines the mythology and biology of this intriguing plant .	the mistletoe ’ s berries represent frigga ’ s :	the mistletoe ’ s berries represent frigga ’ s :
twice annually , the world health organization pulls together experts to analyze all that data , holding one meeting for each hemisphere . the scientists determine which strains to include in that season 's vaccine , picking four for the quadrivalent vaccine in use today . in spite of the flu 's evasive maneuvers , in recent years , the group 's predictions have been almost always correct .	what are the types of flu vaccine available today ?	what are the types of flu vaccine available today ?
but fraud harms real people in virtually every case : the employees of parmalat who lost their jobs , the citizens of dixon whose taxes subsidized horse breeding , the customers of companies which raise their prices to offset losses . sometimes the effects are obvious and devestating , like when bernie madoff caused thousands of people to lose their life savings . but often they 're subtle and not easy to untangle .	sometimes the effects of fraud are not obvious and are hard to untangle .	sometimes the effects of fraud are not obvious and are hard to untangle .
actually , that is what labor day , celebrated in the united states and canada on the first monday of every september , is all about . the first american labor day was celebrated in new york city on september 5th , 1882 , as thousands of workers and their families came to union square for a day in the park . it was not a national holiday but had been organized by a union to honor workers and their hard efforts with a rare day of rest , halfway between july 4th and thanksgiving .	the first american labor day was celebrated in which city :	the first american labor day was celebrated in which city :
during your dream , special neurotransmitters are released , which paralyze almost all of your muscles . that 's called rem atonia . it 's what keeps you from running in your bed when you 're being chased in your dreams .	you learned about rem atonia . in your own words , describe the role rem atonia plays during an episode of sleep paralysis .	you learned about rem atonia . in your own words , describe the role rem atonia plays during an episode of sleep paralysis .
if you 're confused about why this works , the reason involves logical structure . a double positive and a double negative both result in a positive . now , we can be sure that asking either tee or eff a question put this way will yield 'ozo ' if the hypothetical question is true and 'ulu ' if it 's false regardless of what each word actually means .	which combination of hypothetical conditions does not yield a positive ?	which combination of hypothetical conditions does not yield a positive ?
when touring in peru in 1977 , he and his percussionist rubem dantas discovered the cajon and brought it back to spain , recognizing its potential for use in flamenco music . by stretching guitar strings along the inside of the tapa , the flamenco musicians were able to create a buzz-like snare sound . combined with the regular base tone , this gave the cajon a sound close to a basic drum set . the cajon quickly caught on , not only becoming standard in flamenco , but being used in genres like folk , jazz , blues and rock . today , many specialized cajons are manufactured , some with adjustable strings , some with multiple playing surfaces , and some with a snare mechansim .	when the flamenco musicians gave the cajon a snare sound , what instrument did the cajon sound like ?	when the flamenco musicians gave the cajon a snare sound , what instrument did the cajon sound like ?
because vaccines depend on recognition . the flu vaccine includes some of the same substances , called antigens , found on the surface of the virus itself . the body identifies those fragments as foreign and responds by producing compounds called antibodies , tailor-made to match the antigens . when a vaccinated person encounters the actual virus , the preprogrammed antibodies help the immune system identify the threat and mobilize quickly to prevent an infection .	the flu vaccine includes substances found on the surface of the virus . the body identifies those fragments as foreign , and responds by producing compounds called _______ .	the flu vaccine includes substances found on the surface of the virus . the body identifies those fragments as foreign , and responds by producing compounds called _______ .
as it turns out , this problem is impossible to solve because of the nature of pi , but that 's another story . leonardo 's sketch , which is influenced by the writings of the roman architect , vitruvius , places a man firmly at the center of a circle and a square . vitruvius claimed the navel is the center of the human body and that if one takes a compass and places the fixed point on the navel , a circle can be drawn perfectly around the body .	how can a circle be drawn around a man , according to vitruvius ?	how can a circle be drawn around a man , according to vitruvius ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar literary critic northrop frye once observed that in our primitive days , our literary heroes were -- well , nearly gods , and as civilization advanced , they came down the mountain of the gods , so to speak , and became more human , more flawed , less heroic . from the divine heroes like hercules , down the mountain below the miraculous but mortal heroes such as beowulf , the great leaders such as king arthur , and the great but flawed heroes like macbeth or othello .	literary critic northrop frye said , `` in our primitive days , our literary heroes were ...	literary critic northrop frye said , `` in our primitive days , our literary heroes were ...
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar literary critic northrop frye once observed that in our primitive days , our literary heroes were -- well , nearly gods , and as civilization advanced , they came down the mountain of the gods , so to speak , and became more human , more flawed , less heroic . from the divine heroes like hercules , down the mountain below the miraculous but mortal heroes such as beowulf , the great leaders such as king arthur , and the great but flawed heroes like macbeth or othello .	which is true about the antihero ?	which is true about the antihero ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar literary critic northrop frye once observed that in our primitive days , our literary heroes were -- well , nearly gods , and as civilization advanced , they came down the mountain of the gods , so to speak , and became more human , more flawed , less heroic . from the divine heroes like hercules , down the mountain below the miraculous but mortal heroes such as beowulf , the great leaders such as king arthur , and the great but flawed heroes like macbeth or othello .	the antihero :	the antihero :
around the globe , there are approximately 60 million people who have been forced to leave their homes to escape war , violence , and persecution . the majority of them have become internally displaced persons , which means they have fled their homes but are still within their own countries .	worldwide , approximately how many people have been forced to leave their homes to escape violence and war ?	worldwide , approximately how many people have been forced to leave their homes to escape violence and war ?
around the globe , there are approximately 60 million people who have been forced to leave their homes to escape war , violence , and persecution . the majority of them have become internally displaced persons , which means they have fled their homes but are still within their own countries .	think about a family forced to leave their country to flee war . explain the main obstacles and challenges they may face along the way .	think about a family forced to leave their country to flee war . explain the main obstacles and challenges they may face along the way .
see , measurements are defined as two different quantities . scalars are measurements with only numbers , and vectors are measurements with direction . for example , when that quarterback takes the snap , he 's five yards away , but from where ?	scalars are measurements with only _________ . vectors are measurements with _________ .	scalars are measurements with only _________ . vectors are measurements with _________ .
see , measurements are defined as two different quantities . scalars are measurements with only numbers , and vectors are measurements with direction . for example , when that quarterback takes the snap , he 's five yards away , but from where ?	can you use scalars and vectors to describe a home run in baseball ? explain .	can you use scalars and vectors to describe a home run in baseball ? explain .
you 're probably most familiar with the woolly mammoth but there was also a pygmy species , the dwarf mammoth , which was about as tall as i am . this species was found on the channel islands off of california and its small size was most likely result of island dwarfism . this can happen when a large species gets isolated on an island , since smaller animals require fewer food resources , and in the absence of predators , small animals tend to breed more quickly than their larger counterparts .	name two factors that lead to island dwarfism .	name two factors that lead to island dwarfism .
still such a fascinating export , incidentally that it will be the subject of the 40th and final video in this very series . but here ’ s the most amazing thing about the indus valley people . they were peaceful .	the people of the ancient indus valley were ________ .	the people of the ancient indus valley were ________ .
with every creation , daedalus challenged human limitations that had so far kept mortals separate from gods , until finally , he broke right through . king minos 's wife , pasiphaë , had been cursed by the god poseidon to fall in love with the king 's prized bull . under this spell , she asked daedalus to help her seduce it .	enraged by icarus , king minos had him create a labyrinth to imprison	enraged by icarus , king minos had him create a labyrinth to imprison
they then pass on their pesticide-resisting genes to the next generation . that 's lead to the rise of super bugs , such as the colorado potato beetle , which is resistant to over 50 different insecticides . another downside is that other bugs get caught in the crossfire .	the colorado potato beetle is one of the most important agricultural pests worldwide . how many pesticides has the colorado potato beetle developed resistance to ?	the colorado potato beetle is one of the most important agricultural pests worldwide . how many pesticides has the colorado potato beetle developed resistance to ?
what they see is essentially one dimension , a line . but in abbott 's flatland , closer objects are brighter , and that 's how they see depth . so a triangle looks different from a square , looks different a circle , and so on .	how do shapes in flatland perceive depth ?	how do shapes in flatland perceive depth ?
for example , let 's say we have the same initial set up , but now there 's a motorcyclist wearing a helmet to your left and another one without a helmet to your right . which one should your robot car crash into ? if you say the biker with the helmet because she 's more likely to survive , then are n't you penalizing the responsible motorist ?	if a robot car reacts exactly as a human would in a crash scenario , which would be true ?	if a robot car reacts exactly as a human would in a crash scenario , which would be true ?
for example , let 's say we have the same initial set up , but now there 's a motorcyclist wearing a helmet to your left and another one without a helmet to your right . which one should your robot car crash into ? if you say the biker with the helmet because she 's more likely to survive , then are n't you penalizing the responsible motorist ?	for the crash scenarios we considered , recall the `` target '' you said the robot car should swerve into . does your answer change if you or your loved ones were that target , instead of anonymous strangers ? what does that say about ethics ?	for the crash scenarios we considered , recall the `` target '' you said the robot car should swerve into . does your answer change if you or your loved ones were that target , instead of anonymous strangers ? what does that say about ethics ?
imagining for a minute that all bees had to attend architecture academy and go to math class . let 's say they asked their geometry teacher , `` what shape would give us the most space to store our honey , but require the least amount of wax ? '' and then geometry teacher replied , `` the shape that you 're seeking is the circle . ''	the question the bees asked their geometry teacher , “ what shape would give us the most space to store our honey and require the least amount of wax ? ” can be reworded to be more mathematical as : “ what shape maximizes ___________ for a given ____________ ? ”	the question the bees asked their geometry teacher , “ what shape would give us the most space to store our honey and require the least amount of wax ? ” can be reworded to be more mathematical as : “ what shape maximizes ___________ for a given ____________ ? ”
this forces a microscopic barbed harpoon to shoot out , penetrate and inject venom into its victim . nematocyst discharge can occur in less than a millionth of a second , making it one of nature 's fastest biomechanical processes . nematocysts can continue to fire even after a jellyfish has died , so it 's important to remove lingering tentacles stuck to the skin .	the nematocyst can eject in less than a _____ of a second :	the nematocyst can eject in less than a _____ of a second :
for example , a concentration of just 35 ppm of carbon monoxide in the air is poisonous to us . we encounter measurements like this pretty often , but because it 's hard to conceptualize really large numbers , it 's difficult to wrap our brain around what one part per million really means . so here are nine helpful ways to visualize it .	why is it so hard for humans to understand large numbers ?	why is it so hard for humans to understand large numbers ?
this is ytterbium . again , a lanthanide .	what is the physical appearance of ytterbium that pete described to us while in ytterby ?	what is the physical appearance of ytterbium that pete described to us while in ytterby ?
`` hey . '' i did n't know the girl next to me either , this older girl . so i just looked out the window .	who told makeba stories—and stressed the importance of storytelling—when she was a little girl ?	who told makeba stories—and stressed the importance of storytelling—when she was a little girl ?
as it relates to the illusion of motion pictures , persistence of vision has less to do with vision itself than how it 's interpreted in the brain . research has shown that different aspects of what the eye sees , like form , color , depth , and motion , are transmitted to different areas of the visual cortex via different pathways from the retina . it 's the continuous interaction of various computations in the visual cortex that stitch those different aspects together and culminate in the perception .	research has shown that different the aspects of what the eye sees , like form , color , depth , and motion , are transmitted to different areas of the ________ via different pathways from the ________ .	research has shown that different the aspects of what the eye sees , like form , color , depth , and motion , are transmitted to different areas of the ________ via different pathways from the ________ .
stephen is depressed because of his mother 's recent death . meanwhile , bloom wanders throughout the city . he goes to a funeral , his work , a pub , and so on , avoiding going home because molly is about to begin her affair .	what is leopold bloom ’ s job ?	what is leopold bloom ’ s job ?
stephen is depressed because of his mother 's recent death . meanwhile , bloom wanders throughout the city . he goes to a funeral , his work , a pub , and so on , avoiding going home because molly is about to begin her affair .	in what ways does bloom ’ s wandering throughout dublin suggest odysseus ’ s travels in homer ’ s `` odyssey '' ?	in what ways does bloom ’ s wandering throughout dublin suggest odysseus ’ s travels in homer ’ s `` odyssey '' ?
so you can see all of the bubbles forming on this steel tray now , and they 're sweeping away all the dust quite nicely as they evaporate and move further afield . so neil 's got a piece of tubing , and it 's really quite flexible tubing , you can see it 's really floppy , and now he 's gon na put it into the cryogenic liquid nitrogen and freeze it , and see what happens to the rubber . but you see another interesting thing there is that the liquid nitrogen is siphoning out through the tube , and that 's a really good joke , because you can direct that siphon at someones trousers and freeze their legs .	in the school of chemistry at the university of nottingham , there is a lift ( elevator ) with a sign that states , “ danger ! risk of asphyxiation . do not ride in the lift with dewars containing cryogenic liquids ” . why ?	in the school of chemistry at the university of nottingham , there is a lift ( elevator ) with a sign that states , “ danger ! risk of asphyxiation . do not ride in the lift with dewars containing cryogenic liquids ” . why ?
sometime in the early 1750s , a 22-year-old man named benjamin banneker sat industriously carving cogs and gears out of wood . he pieced the parts together to create the complex inner working of a striking clock that would , hopefully , chime every hour .	benjamin banneker is said to be the first african-american man of science . what sort of limitations would he have faced in his time and how did overcome them ?	benjamin banneker is said to be the first african-american man of science . what sort of limitations would he have faced in his time and how did overcome them ?
yet the practice of using this toxic pigment continued across time and cultures . lead white was the only practical choice for white oil or tempera paint until the 19th century . to make their paint , artists would grind a block of lead into powder , exposing highly toxic dust particles .	lead , while helping to produce a bright white pigment , can be dangerous to humans . how ?	lead , while helping to produce a bright white pigment , can be dangerous to humans . how ?
yet the practice of using this toxic pigment continued across time and cultures . lead white was the only practical choice for white oil or tempera paint until the 19th century . to make their paint , artists would grind a block of lead into powder , exposing highly toxic dust particles .	despite its deadly side effects , lead white was so popular that it wasn ’ t banned until the 1970s . what was it about this pigment that made it so popular ?	despite its deadly side effects , lead white was so popular that it wasn ’ t banned until the 1970s . what was it about this pigment that made it so popular ?
( music ) sometimes when i 'm on a long plane flight , i gaze out at all those mountains and deserts and try to get my head around how vast our earth is . and then i remember that there 's an object we see every day that would literally fit one million earths inside it . the sun seems impossibly big , but in the great scheme of things , it 's a pinprick , one of about 400 billion stars in the milky way galaxy , which you can see on a clear night as a pale , white mist stretched across the sky .	approximately how many planet earths could you fit inside the sun ?	approximately how many planet earths could you fit inside the sun ?
the polarity within those water molecules gives this common substance the properties that make it unique and life-sustaining . polarity refers to the unequal sharing of electrons within a molecule . for water , the bonding between the oxygen atom and two hydrogen atoms within a single water molecule is like a tug-of-war between a big , strong football player and a cute little toddler .	polarity refers to the _______________ in a molecule .	polarity refers to the _______________ in a molecule .
within minutes after death , the blood begins settling in the lower-most parts of the body . usually eight to twelve hours later , the skin in those areas is discolored by livor mortis , or post-mortem stain . and while at the moment of death the body 's muscles relax completely in a condition called primary flaccidity , they stiffen about two to six hours later in what 's known as rigor mortis .	post mortem stain is called :	post mortem stain is called :
in these cases , placebos are often used as a control to fine-tune the trial so that the effects of the new versus the old or alternative drug can be precisely compared . but of course , we know the placebos exert their own influence , too . thanks to the placebo effect , patients have experienced relief from a range of ailments , including heart problems , asthma , and severe pain , even though all they 'd received was a fake drug or sham surgery .	list some of the benefits that patients have been known to experience while under the influence of placebos .	list some of the benefits that patients have been known to experience while under the influence of placebos .
so how would that work ? in the lhc , two proton beams move in opposite directions and are accelerated to near the speed of light . at four collision points , the beams cross and protons smash into each other .	does a proton have a sub-structure ?	does a proton have a sub-structure ?
so how would that work ? in the lhc , two proton beams move in opposite directions and are accelerated to near the speed of light . at four collision points , the beams cross and protons smash into each other .	imagine an unknown particle is produced in proton-proton collisions in the lhc . what are the main steps until the discovery of this particle can be claimed ?	imagine an unknown particle is produced in proton-proton collisions in the lhc . what are the main steps until the discovery of this particle can be claimed ?
if we add a third wave , the regions where the waves cancel out get bigger , a fourth and they get bigger still , with the wavier regions becoming narrower . if we keep adding waves , we can make a wave packet with a clear wavelength in one small region . that 's a quantum object with both wave and particle nature , but to accomplish this , we had to lose certainty about both position and momentum .	adding together multiple waves to make a wave packet means that :	adding together multiple waves to make a wave packet means that :
not only that , but during life , bones undergo a constant cycle of remodeling . so if someone moves from one place to another , bones synthesized after that move will also reflect the new isotopic signatures of the surrounding environment . that means that skeletons can be used like migratory maps .	isotopic composition of a human body reflects :	isotopic composition of a human body reflects :
so it seems improbable at first that 23 people could produce 253 possible pairs . once our brains accept that , the birthday problem makes more sense . every one of those 253 pairs is a chance for a birthday match .	which of the following best describes the approach taken to solve the birthday problem in this video ?	which of the following best describes the approach taken to solve the birthday problem in this video ?
it enters our body through the nose and mouth , moves down into the pharynx , trachea and bronchial tubes , and ultimately reaches the alveoli air sacs in the lungs . the alveoli use pressure to move oxygen and nutrients into the blood . the diaphragm and intercostal muscles are a pumping system that facilitates this air exchange .	how do the alveoli in the lungs move oxygen and nutrients into the bloodstream ?	how do the alveoli in the lungs move oxygen and nutrients into the bloodstream ?
wigner pointed out that many purely mathematical theories developed in a vacuum , often with no view towards describing any physical phenomena , have proven decades or even centuries later , to be the framework necessary to explain how the universe has been working all along . for instance , the number theory of british mathematician gottfried hardy , who had boasted that none of his work would ever be found useful in describing any phenomena in the real world , helped establish cryptography . another piece of his purely theoretical work became known as the hardy-weinberg law in genetics , and won a nobel prize .	what mathematician incorrectly boasted that none of his work would ever serve a useful purpose ?	what mathematician incorrectly boasted that none of his work would ever serve a useful purpose ?
such a testosterone boost may give a man the nudge to pursue a woman he might not have otherwise noticed . a woman 's nose is particularly attuned to mhc molecules , which are used to fight disease . in this case , opposites attract .	major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) molecules are part of what system ?	major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) molecules are part of what system ?
such a testosterone boost may give a man the nudge to pursue a woman he might not have otherwise noticed . a woman 's nose is particularly attuned to mhc molecules , which are used to fight disease . in this case , opposites attract .	why would a woman be most attracted to a man with opposite major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) molecules ?	why would a woman be most attracted to a man with opposite major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) molecules ?
policymaking is an effort to freeze and perpetuate a particular flow of power . policy is power frozen . law number three : power compounds . power begets more power , and so does powerlessness . the only thing that keeps law number three from leading to a situation where only one person has all the power is how we apply laws one and two .	what strategies can you use to gain more power in public life ?	what strategies can you use to gain more power in public life ?
just remove any one bridge . and it turns out , history created a eulerian path of its own . during world war ii , the soviet air force destroyed two of the city 's bridges , making a eulerian path easily possible . though , to be fair , that probably was n't their intention .	instead of removing bridges , where would you have to add bridges to form a eulerian path ? how many would you have to add ?	instead of removing bridges , where would you have to add bridges to form a eulerian path ? how many would you have to add ?
yet within the following year , einstein would publish not one , not two , not three , but four extraordinary papers , each on a different topic , that were destined to radically transform our understanding of the universe . the myth that einstein had failed math is just that . he had mastered calculus on his own by the age of 15 and done well at both his munich secondary school and at the swiss polytechnic , where he studied for a math and physics teaching diploma .	after you viewed this lesson , how did your perception of einstein change or stay the same ?	after you viewed this lesson , how did your perception of einstein change or stay the same ?
so , it 's very funny . the reason why galaxy clusters can teach us about dark matter , the reason why galaxy clusters can teach us about the physics of the very small , is precisely because they are so very big . fourth thing : the physics of the very strange .	what is the main reason galaxy clusters emit lots of x-rays ?	what is the main reason galaxy clusters emit lots of x-rays ?
so , it 's very funny . the reason why galaxy clusters can teach us about dark matter , the reason why galaxy clusters can teach us about the physics of the very small , is precisely because they are so very big . fourth thing : the physics of the very strange .	challenge question : conservation of energy and the fact that galaxy clusters are radiating x-rays tells us that ________ .	challenge question : conservation of energy and the fact that galaxy clusters are radiating x-rays tells us that ________ .
i 'm seacrestopolis , and i 'm mario lopedokia . peace , love and catharsis .	seacrestopolous mentions a catharsis at the end of the video , which was an integral part of greek theater . what is your understanding of catharsis ? why do you suppose it is so important ?	seacrestopolous mentions a catharsis at the end of the video , which was an integral part of greek theater . what is your understanding of catharsis ? why do you suppose it is so important ?
we breathe by lowering the pressure in our lungs , allowing air to rush in . so the next time you take a deep breath , think of the unfathomable number of air molecules you 're commanding to move . we look up at the night sky to ponder the infinity of space , but unless you 're watching this video from that deep space , there are more air molecules in and around your body than there are grains of sand in all the world 's beaches and deserts , stars in the visible universe , or both of those numbers combined .	which of the following is the largest number ?	which of the following is the largest number ?
i ’ m pointing , but you can ’ t tell because i ’ m wearing mittens . 45,000 canadians died fighting for the allies in world war ii , which means that , per capita , canada lost more people than the united states . you fought with the royal air force to defend great britain from the beginning of the war and you were there on d-day , successfully invading juno beach .	true or false : canada lost more people per capita than the united states .	true or false : canada lost more people per capita than the united states .
he called this hidden trait the recessive trait . from those results , mendel inferred that each trait depends on a pair of factors , one of them coming from the mother and the other from the father . now we know that these factors are called alleles and represent the different variations of a gene .	what did mendel call the two kinds of traits exhibited by the pea plants ( one coming from the father , one from the mother ) ?	what did mendel call the two kinds of traits exhibited by the pea plants ( one coming from the father , one from the mother ) ?
`` i get it . okay , so the molecules of the shake are the higgs bosons ! '' `` well , you 're getting closer .	what are bosons ?	what are bosons ?
your cold pack contains water and a solid compound , usually ammonium nitrate , in different compartments separated by a barrier . when the barrier is broken , the solid dissolves causing what 's known as an endothermic reaction , one that absorbs heat from its surroundings . to understand how this works , we need to look at the two driving forces behind chemical processes : energetics and entropy .	the breaking of bonds on the molecular level always requires an input of energy . therefore forming bonds always releases energy . based on this , build an explanation for why a reaction would release heat ( exothermic ) and why a reaction would consume heat ( endothermic ) .	the breaking of bonds on the molecular level always requires an input of energy . therefore forming bonds always releases energy . based on this , build an explanation for why a reaction would release heat ( exothermic ) and why a reaction would consume heat ( endothermic ) .
your cold pack contains water and a solid compound , usually ammonium nitrate , in different compartments separated by a barrier . when the barrier is broken , the solid dissolves causing what 's known as an endothermic reaction , one that absorbs heat from its surroundings . to understand how this works , we need to look at the two driving forces behind chemical processes : energetics and entropy .	when a reaction is endothermic :	when a reaction is endothermic :
one possibility is that the tomato particles near the walls of the container slowly get bumped towards the middle , leaving the soup they were dissolved in , which remember is basically water , near the edges . that water serves as a lubricant betwen the glass bottle and the center plug of ketchup , and so the ketchup flows . another possibility is that the particles slowly rearrange themselves into lots of small groups , which then flow past each other .	what ’ s the difference between ketchup and oobleck ?	what ’ s the difference between ketchup and oobleck ?
but , in fact , all of these are methods that are commonly used to help seeds start growing . a typical seed consists of a plant embryo encased in a hard seed coat . to start growing , it needs to emerge or sprout from inside this shell .	what do we call the sprouting of an embryo from a seed ?	what do we call the sprouting of an embryo from a seed ?
but , in fact , all of these are methods that are commonly used to help seeds start growing . a typical seed consists of a plant embryo encased in a hard seed coat . to start growing , it needs to emerge or sprout from inside this shell .	what do we call any method that breaks down the hard seed coat ?	what do we call any method that breaks down the hard seed coat ?
that earned him the name the teflon don after one of the slipperiest materials on earth . teflon was in the spacesuits the apollo crew wore for the moon landing , in pipes and valves used in the manhattan project , and maybe in your kitchen as the nonstick coating on frying pans and cookie sheets . so what is this slippery solid , and why does n't anything stick to it ?	which property of teflon made it ideal for coating the valves and seals in pipes carrying toxic fluids ( e.g. , uranium hexafluoride ) in the manhattan project during world war ii ?	which property of teflon made it ideal for coating the valves and seals in pipes carrying toxic fluids ( e.g. , uranium hexafluoride ) in the manhattan project during world war ii ?
so if you were a scientist trying to cure this disease , at what point would you ideally want to intervene ? many scientists are betting big on the simplest solution : keep amyloid plaques from reaching that tipping point , which means that drug discovery is largely focused on developing a compound that will prevent , eliminate , or reduce amyloid plaque accumulation . so the cure for alzheimer 's will likely be a preventative medicine .	around how many years of amyloid plaque accumulation does it take to reach a tipping point in your brain ?	around how many years of amyloid plaque accumulation does it take to reach a tipping point in your brain ?
root 2 simply is the hypotenuse of a right triangle with sides of a length one . similarly , the famous irrational number pi is always equal to exactly what it represents , the ratio of a circle 's circumference to its diameter . approximations like 22/7 , or 355/113 will never precisely equal pi .	the diagonal of a square with sides equal to 1 unit is irrational . are the diagonals of all squares irrational ?	the diagonal of a square with sides equal to 1 unit is irrational . are the diagonals of all squares irrational ?
rome was built in marble and meant to last forever . it represented , for many years , the pinnacle of human civilization , so its destruction left a huge void . theologians , who preached about a world beyond the physical , began attracting an audience as rome crumbled , and christianity started to fill the void left by the empire .	the destruction of the roman empire was a momentous occasion in art history . in the same way this connection was explained in this video , concisely explain a connection between an historical event and its effect on society .	the destruction of the roman empire was a momentous occasion in art history . in the same way this connection was explained in this video , concisely explain a connection between an historical event and its effect on society .
a price of euros that 's appropriate for greece , where they have a 25 % unemployment rate is way too low for germany , where the unemployment rate is below 5 % . and greece 's problem is that it 's small , poor , and geographically isolated from the rest of the eurozone . it 's like the only vegetarian at a barbeque , except when it comes to currencies , there 's no side dishes .	according to the narrator , one of the possible ways the problem can be solved is by :	according to the narrator , one of the possible ways the problem can be solved is by :
it 's not clear if that really works in humans but there is a real published study in which pumpkin seeds helped de-worm ostriches . pumpkins come from the americas - they were actually one of the first plants domesticated here 8-10 thousand years ago . when the pilgrims arrived in 1620 they ate a lot of pumpkins .	pumpkins were one of the first plants domesticated in ...	pumpkins were one of the first plants domesticated in ...
they all came from people . people innovate . people create . it 's the limitless potential of creative people to build unimagined technologies that is going to stop climate change and rebalance the ecosystem . and that is something to be hopeful about .	the lesson suggests that the solution to climate change is “ the limitless potential of creative people to build un-imagined technologies. ” do you feel that people inventing sustainable technologies can solve climate change ? explain why or why not you think this is a logical conclusion .	the lesson suggests that the solution to climate change is “ the limitless potential of creative people to build un-imagined technologies. ” do you feel that people inventing sustainable technologies can solve climate change ? explain why or why not you think this is a logical conclusion .
the eyes are the first components in attraction . many visual beauty standards vary between cultures and eras , and signs of youth , fertility and good health , such as long lustrous hair , or smooth , scar-free skin , are almost always in demand because they 're associated with reproductive fitness . and when the eyes spot something they like , our instinct is to move closer so the other senses can investigate .	what do things like long lustrous hair and smooth scar free skin indicate and why would that be important ?	what do things like long lustrous hair and smooth scar free skin indicate and why would that be important ?
even prior to the first shots of the american revolution , the thirteen colonies worked together through a provisional government called the continental congress . during the war in 1781 , the articles of confederation were ratified as the first truly national government . but establishing a new nation would prove easier than running it .	the ______ was the first national government before the u.s. constitution .	the ______ was the first national government before the u.s. constitution .
of course , many people consider the story of the last supper to be true but other superstitions come from religious traditions that few people believe in or even remember . knocking on wood is thought to come from the folklore of the ancient indo-europeans or possibly people who predated them who believed that trees were home to various spirits . touching a tree would invoke the protection or blessing of the spirit within .	the belief that knocking on wood brings good luck is thought to stem from the :	the belief that knocking on wood brings good luck is thought to stem from the :
pause here if you want to figure it out for yourself . answer in : 3 answer in : 2 answer in : 1 according to the professor 's calculations , they should be able to pull it off by a hair . the key is to maximize the support each assistant provides , not wasting a single kiloliter of fuel .	how many miles do airplanes 1 , 2 , and 3 each fly ?	how many miles do airplanes 1 , 2 , and 3 each fly ?
and the effects of these pathogens are staggering . diarrheal disease from unsafe water is one of the leading causes of death around the world for children under five . and according to a u.n. report from 2010 , microbial water-borne illnesses killed more people per year than war .	when exposed to unsafe water , children under five often :	when exposed to unsafe water , children under five often :
where the mach cone meets the ground , it forms a hyperbola , leaving a trail known as the boom carpet as it travels forward . this makes it possible to determine the area affected by a sonic boom . what about figuring out how strong a sonic boom will be ?	how can we determine the strength of a sonic boom ?	how can we determine the strength of a sonic boom ?
are you familiar with the word symbiosis ? it 's a fancy term for a partnership between two different species , such as bees and flowers . in a symbiosis , both species depend on each other . i want to tell you about a remarkable symbiosis between a little bird , the clark 's nutcracker , and a big tree , the whitebark pine . whitebark grow in the mountains of wyoming , montana and other western states .	both the clark ’ s nutcracker and the whitebark pine have evolved anatomical features that sustain the symbiotic relationship between the two species . describe these adaptations .	both the clark ’ s nutcracker and the whitebark pine have evolved anatomical features that sustain the symbiotic relationship between the two species . describe these adaptations .
i 'll give you an example . in my lab , we studied whether mindfulness training could help people quit smoking . now , just like trying to force myself to pay attention to my breath , they could try to force themselves to quit smoking .	describe how judson brewer and his team used mindfulness training to try to get his patients to quit smoking .	describe how judson brewer and his team used mindfulness training to try to get his patients to quit smoking .
over the past century , and in particular in the last several decades , human endeavors , from beach development to plastic refuse to poaching , long lines , nets , and even noxious chemicals , including oil , have upped the ante for sea turtles , causing their survival rate to drop to around one percent or less , from each nesting cycle . it is this added human pressure which has pushed each of the eight sea turtle species into either a threatened or endangered state . for while they have evolved to overcome a host of obstacles , the most recent has arisen so quickly and at such scale that the species find themselves overwhelmed .	while not every species faces the same daunting odds of survival experienced by a sea turtle , all life is subject to challenges . particularly when viewed from the perspective of an individual , the likelihood of existence is bewilderingly slight . discuss how such a condition affects the valuation of mature individual species ( yourself included ) .	while not every species faces the same daunting odds of survival experienced by a sea turtle , all life is subject to challenges . particularly when viewed from the perspective of an individual , the likelihood of existence is bewilderingly slight . discuss how such a condition affects the valuation of mature individual species ( yourself included ) .
over the past century , and in particular in the last several decades , human endeavors , from beach development to plastic refuse to poaching , long lines , nets , and even noxious chemicals , including oil , have upped the ante for sea turtles , causing their survival rate to drop to around one percent or less , from each nesting cycle . it is this added human pressure which has pushed each of the eight sea turtle species into either a threatened or endangered state . for while they have evolved to overcome a host of obstacles , the most recent has arisen so quickly and at such scale that the species find themselves overwhelmed .	some animal species provide significant parental care for their offspring . other animal species provide little to no parental care for their offspring . discuss how these varied tactics are reflected in the number of offspring produced , particularly as concerns the investment of time and energy by the parent ( s ) .	some animal species provide significant parental care for their offspring . other animal species provide little to no parental care for their offspring . discuss how these varied tactics are reflected in the number of offspring produced , particularly as concerns the investment of time and energy by the parent ( s ) .
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar carbon dioxide , or co2 , is the main greenhouse gas in climate change . so how does co2 get into our atmosphere ?	do you think that having to limit emissions would hamper the ability to increase the living standards of people ? why is affluence not an acceptable variable to reduce impact ? is it fair that developed nations have historically created lots of co2 while becoming wealthy , but now developing nations can not do the same without exacerbating climate change and putting everyone at risk ? what is a fair way for developing nations to grow and continue to move out of poverty but also keep carbon emissions from growing globally and causing climate change ?	do you think that having to limit emissions would hamper the ability to increase the living standards of people ? why is affluence not an acceptable variable to reduce impact ? is it fair that developed nations have historically created lots of co2 while becoming wealthy , but now developing nations can not do the same without exacerbating climate change and putting everyone at risk ? what is a fair way for developing nations to grow and continue to move out of poverty but also keep carbon emissions from growing globally and causing climate change ?
another important consideration in the choice of contraceptives are side effects , which almost exclusively affect women rather than men . hormonal methods in particular can cause symptoms like headaches , nausea , and high blood pressure , but they vary from woman to woman . that 's why these methods require a prescription from a doctor . the choice of contraceptive method is a personal one , and what works best for you now may change later .	methods of contraception are designed :	methods of contraception are designed :
during the renaissance , artists like leonardo davinci used this method to introduce 3-d scenes onto a flat plane so that they could copy things , like perspective , more easily . in 1724 , johann heinrich schultz discovered that exposing certain silver compounds to light altered their appearance and left marks wherever the light touched . essentially , schultz found a way to record the images that alhazen was able to project , but only for a little while .	who discovered that exposing certain silver compounds to light altered their appearance ?	who discovered that exposing certain silver compounds to light altered their appearance ?
she did this after noticing that those who managed to survive smallpox never got it again , and her odd treatment worked . the procedure , called variolation , slowly evolved and by the 1700 's , doctors were taking material from sores and putting them into healthy people through four or five scratches on the arm . this worked pretty well as inoculated people would not get reinfected , but it was n't foolproof .	what did they use in the 1700s to inoculate healthy people for variolation ?	what did they use in the 1700s to inoculate healthy people for variolation ?
dna is made of two helicoidal strands , one opposite the other with bases in the center like rungs of a ladder . watson and crick published their model in april 1953 . meanwhile , franklin had finished her calculations , come to the same conclusion , and submitted her own manuscript .	why wasn ’ t franklin mentioned in the 1953 article by watson and crick ?	why wasn ’ t franklin mentioned in the 1953 article by watson and crick ?
a donut and a coffee cup look the same to a topologist because they both have one hole . you could reshape a donut into a coffee cup and it would still have just one . that topological property is stable .	how can we reshape a doughnut into a coffee cup ?	how can we reshape a doughnut into a coffee cup ?
because even the concept of rest has lost any hint of absolute meaning . speed is relative , and rest is relative . earth 's speed is 19 miles/second relative to the sun .	cite some examples of terrestrial objects relative to which you are currently moving . can you estimate your speed relative to these objects ?	cite some examples of terrestrial objects relative to which you are currently moving . can you estimate your speed relative to these objects ?
what happens if in place of the healthy , balanced dish , you eat sugar-rich food instead ? if you rarely eat sugar or do n't eat much at a time , the effect is similar to that of the balanced meal . but if you eat too much , the dopamine response does not level out .	what kind of diet has an effect in the brain that is similar to eating a balanced meal ?	what kind of diet has an effect in the brain that is similar to eating a balanced meal ?
there are about 900 natural history museums in the world , and every year they make new discoveries and insights into the earth 's past , present and future . museum collections even help us understand how modern threats , such as global climate change , are impacting our world . for instance , naturalists have been collecting samples for over 100 years from walden pond , famously immortalized by henry david thoreau .	why would it be useful for a museum to have multiple examples of the same species in its collections ?	why would it be useful for a museum to have multiple examples of the same species in its collections ?
no amount of shaking would ever get the steel out . now imagine that same bottle full of a liquid like water . that would pour like a dream . ketchup , though , ca n't seem to make up its mind .	would you say that a non-newtonian fluid is a solid with some liquid-like properties or a liquid with some solid-like properties ? why ?	would you say that a non-newtonian fluid is a solid with some liquid-like properties or a liquid with some solid-like properties ? why ?
as clark noted in his journal , `` a woman with a party of men is a token of peace . '' shortly thereafter , sacajawea gave birth to a little boy named jean baptiste charbonneau . clark called him pompy .	sacajawea gave birth to a little boy she named jean baptiste charbonneau but lewis and clark called him :	sacajawea gave birth to a little boy she named jean baptiste charbonneau but lewis and clark called him :
as clark noted in his journal , `` a woman with a party of men is a token of peace . '' shortly thereafter , sacajawea gave birth to a little boy named jean baptiste charbonneau . clark called him pompy .	sacajawea gave birth during the expedition to a little boy she named jean baptiste , also known as “ pomp. ” she carried her baby on her back for the remainder of the journey . do you think having a baby slowed down the expedition ? how might having an infant during such a trip change things ? do you think having pompy along helped or hurt the journey ?	sacajawea gave birth during the expedition to a little boy she named jean baptiste , also known as “ pomp. ” she carried her baby on her back for the remainder of the journey . do you think having a baby slowed down the expedition ? how might having an infant during such a trip change things ? do you think having pompy along helped or hurt the journey ?
you ca n't make the sound anymore once you close your nose because you 've pressurized the system . whales , by having air sacks , keep themselves from pressurizing the system , which means the air continues to flow , and so if you had a bag on the end of your nose , you 'd be able to make air continue to flow . so i hope you 've enjoyed that .	whales are air-breathing mammals living in water . what are some of the difficulties of using air to make sounds underwater , and how have whales solved this problem ?	whales are air-breathing mammals living in water . what are some of the difficulties of using air to make sounds underwater , and how have whales solved this problem ?
our retina are only sensitive to light with a very small range in energy , and so we call that range of light visible light . inside our retina are special receptors called rods and cones . the rods measure brightness , so we know how much light there is .	what are the functions of both rods and cones in your eyes ?	what are the functions of both rods and cones in your eyes ?
paintings , sculpture , textiles and illuminations were the media of their time , supplying vivid imagery to accompany the stories of the day . in this sense , western art shared a utilitarian purpose with other cultures around the world , some of whose languages incidentally have no word for art . so how do we define what we call art ? generally speaking , what we 're talking about here is work that visually communicates meaning beyond language , either through representation or the arrangement of visual elements in space .	in this lesson , how do we define art ?	in this lesson , how do we define art ?
occasionally , people pass by the fire , carrying figures of animals and other objects that cast shadows on the wall . the prisoners name and classify these illusions , believing they 're perceiving actual entities . suddenly , one prisoner is freed and brought outside for the first time .	how do the prisoners respond to being chained ?	how do the prisoners respond to being chained ?
that mindset is useful in all walks of life . and then there 's learning through failure , one of the most transformative , long-term benefits of playing sports . the experience of coming to terms with defeat can build the resilience and self-awareness necessary to manage academic , social , and physical hurdles .	why might learning to accept defeat be beneficial in the long run ? what do athletes learn after suffering a tough loss ?	why might learning to accept defeat be beneficial in the long run ? what do athletes learn after suffering a tough loss ?
the oxygen-rich hemoglobin is then transported throughout the body via the bloodstream . but what do our lungs do with all that carbon dioxide ? exhale it , of course .	what controls the movement of the lungs ?	what controls the movement of the lungs ?
the oxygen-rich hemoglobin is then transported throughout the body via the bloodstream . but what do our lungs do with all that carbon dioxide ? exhale it , of course .	how do the lungs get rid of all the co2 they 've picked up from the blood ?	how do the lungs get rid of all the co2 they 've picked up from the blood ?
each room is connected to the adjacent ones by an airlock , and the virus has been released in every room except the entrance . to destroy it , you must enter each contaminated room and pull its emergency self-destruct switch . but there 's a catch .	once you ’ ve entered a contaminated room , what must you do ?	once you ’ ve entered a contaminated room , what must you do ?
let 's see how it unfolds . when we first see the two frogs , there are several possible combinations of male and female . if we write out the full list , we have what mathematicians call the sample space , and as we can see , out of the four possible combinations , only one has two males .	consider the same two frogs sitting next to each other again . we inform you that one of them is definitely male . what is the probability that the other is female ?	consider the same two frogs sitting next to each other again . we inform you that one of them is definitely male . what is the probability that the other is female ?
let 's see how it unfolds . when we first see the two frogs , there are several possible combinations of male and female . if we write out the full list , we have what mathematicians call the sample space , and as we can see , out of the four possible combinations , only one has two males .	consider the same two frogs sitting next to each other . we inform you that the frog sitting on the right is definitely male . what is the probability that the frog on the left is female ?	consider the same two frogs sitting next to each other . we inform you that the frog sitting on the right is definitely male . what is the probability that the frog on the left is female ?
the english translation maintained the x but replaced the german shine with ray , meaning a beam of light . coincidentally , in mathematics , the word ray refers to a line with a point of origin that has no end and extends to infinity , bringing us neatly back to the unknown . today we understand what x-radiation is , and in spite of the humble objections of its discoverer , it is also commonly called rontgen radiation , eliminating with the x the fundamental mystery of its nature .	in mathematics , the word ray refers to a line with a point of origin that has _______ .	in mathematics , the word ray refers to a line with a point of origin that has _______ .
the nervous system causes the wrinkling by constricting blood vessels below the skin , which causes the upper layers of skin to pucker . since the phenomenon is caused by an involuntary nerve response , some biologists have thought that it must have some evolutionary function . but what possible purpose could it serve ?	what did scientist think used to cause this phenomenon ?	what did scientist think used to cause this phenomenon ?
after eight decades of rebellion against spanish power , the dutch came to favor the idea of self-rule and a political republic . cities like delft were unsupervised by kings or bishops , so many artists like vermeer were left without traditional patrons . fortunately , business innovation spearheaded by the dutch east india company transformed the economic landscape in the netherlands .	what economic innovation helped replace traditional patrons in vermeer ’ s home town ?	what economic innovation helped replace traditional patrons in vermeer ’ s home town ?
how 's this for a strange idea : a day off from work in honor of work itself ? actually , that is what labor day , celebrated in the united states and canada on the first monday of every september , is all about . the first american labor day was celebrated in new york city on september 5th , 1882 , as thousands of workers and their families came to union square for a day in the park .	labor day is celebrated in america and canada on the first monday in :	labor day is celebrated in america and canada on the first monday in :
but why would a substance change to a state where the interactions were weaker ? would n't the stronger preexisting interactions keep the solid from dissolving ? this is where entropy comes in . entropy basically describes how objects and energy are distributed based on random motion . if you think of the air in a room , there are many different possible arrangements for the trillions of particles that compose it .	there are some solids that do not dissolve in water despite the fact that the interactions are stronger if they are dissolved . build an explanation based on entropy for why these substances do not dissolve .	there are some solids that do not dissolve in water despite the fact that the interactions are stronger if they are dissolved . build an explanation based on entropy for why these substances do not dissolve .
our automatic scratching response would dislodge anything harmful that 's potentially lurking on our skin , like a harmful sting , a biting insect , or the tendrils of a poisonous plant . this might explain why we do n't feel itching inside our bodies , like in our intestines , which is safe from these external threats , though imagine how maddening that would be . in some people , glitches in the pathways responsible for all of this can cause excessive itching that can actually harm their health .	what is one of the real-world threats that itching could warn us about ?	what is one of the real-world threats that itching could warn us about ?
but if you read carefully , you 'll notice that shakespeare 's characters turn to poetry , and iambic pentameter in particular , for many of the same reasons that we look to poetry in our own lives . feeling passionate , introspective , or momentous . whether it 's hamlet pondering his existence , or romeo professing his love , the characters switch to iambic pentameter when speaking about their emotions and their place in the world .	think about how you speak when you are feeling a strong emotion : anger , happiness , sadness , and disappointment . in trying to express yourself , do you use specific kinds of words ? do you use short sentences or long sentences ? and does your language change depending on the kind of emotion you ’ re feeling ?	think about how you speak when you are feeling a strong emotion : anger , happiness , sadness , and disappointment . in trying to express yourself , do you use specific kinds of words ? do you use short sentences or long sentences ? and does your language change depending on the kind of emotion you ’ re feeling ?
`` careful what you call him . you may be related . '' `` what ? ''	which major historical event may have been directly caused by the mongol invasion ?	which major historical event may have been directly caused by the mongol invasion ?
yet , none of our man-made objects have these traits ; they 're simply thrown away when they break and they definitely ca n't reproduce . the answer lies in something called self assembly . self assembly is a system where unordered parts come together in an organized structure , completely on their own .	what is self-assembly ?	what is self-assembly ?
yet , none of our man-made objects have these traits ; they 're simply thrown away when they break and they definitely ca n't reproduce . the answer lies in something called self assembly . self assembly is a system where unordered parts come together in an organized structure , completely on their own .	where do we see self-assembly in biology ?	where do we see self-assembly in biology ?
yet , none of our man-made objects have these traits ; they 're simply thrown away when they break and they definitely ca n't reproduce . the answer lies in something called self assembly . self assembly is a system where unordered parts come together in an organized structure , completely on their own .	explain how self-assembly might remove the need for humans to complete repetitive , mundane tasks .	explain how self-assembly might remove the need for humans to complete repetitive , mundane tasks .
each program was initially written by a human in a human-readable programming language , like java , c++ , or python . but human programs take up a lot of space and contain a lot of unnecessary information to a computer , so they are compiled and made smaller and stored in bits of ones and zeros in memory . the cpu realizes that it needs instructions for how to deal with this mouse click , so it looks up the address for the mouse program and sends a request to the memory subsystem for instructions stored there .	programs are encoded and stored in memory as	programs are encoded and stored in memory as
two or three days ago , i got a letter from one of our fans and it ’ s different from any other letter that we have ever had , because this fan , young , has attached to it a sample of an element and what ’ s more it is an element that i had never seen . it ’ s scandium .	why is the professor so happy about the letter , which had just arrived ?	why is the professor so happy about the letter , which had just arrived ?
simply put , it states that given enough elements in a set or structure , some particular interesting pattern among them is guaranteed to emerge . as a simple example , let 's look at what 's called the party problem , a classic illustration of ramsey theory . suppose there are at least six people at a party .	according to the ramsey theory and the “ party problem , ” in a group of six party goers which statement is true ?	according to the ramsey theory and the “ party problem , ” in a group of six party goers which statement is true ?
do we want to save those lives , or do we want to discard them ? the crimes i committed , i brought shame to not only myself but to those who i love . so i 'm just really trying to do something to get out of that cycle .	how do the four prisoners introduce themselves in the beginning of the film ? what were the crimes they committed ?	how do the four prisoners introduce themselves in the beginning of the film ? what were the crimes they committed ?
this energy travels up to the surface , displacing water and raising it above the normal sea level , but gravity pulls it back down , which makes the energy ripple outwards horizontally . thus , the tsunami is born , moving at over 500 miles per hour . when it 's far from shore , a tsunami can be barely detectable since it moves through the entire depth of the water .	how high can a tsunami reach ?	how high can a tsunami reach ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die .	what do cicadas do while they ’ re underground ?	what do cicadas do while they ’ re underground ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die .	what do cicadas do after they emerge ?	what do cicadas do after they emerge ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die .	how loud can groups of cicadas get ?	how loud can groups of cicadas get ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die .	what eats cicadas ?	what eats cicadas ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die .	are cicadas still part of the food chain ? if so , how ?	are cicadas still part of the food chain ? if so , how ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die .	cicadas are very loud . can you think of other animals that call for mates like cicadas do ?	cicadas are very loud . can you think of other animals that call for mates like cicadas do ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die .	why do cicadas come out so infrequently ?	why do cicadas come out so infrequently ?
cracks spread across its surface . the steam that was bubbling inside evaporates , leaving behind airy pockets that make the cookie light and flaky . helping this along is your leavening agent , sodium bicarbonate , or baking soda .	what makes cookies light and airy ?	what makes cookies light and airy ?
but what the villagers interpreted as unholy reanimation were actually normal symptoms of death . when a body decomposes , the skin dehydrates , causing the hair and fingernails to extend . bacteria in the stomach creates gases that fill the belly , which force out blood and matter through the mouth .	what happens when a body decomposes ?	what happens when a body decomposes ?
so now the iron , we ’ re gon na heat the iron , this is iron wool which you might use for treating wood , and we ’ re gon na heat that until it ’ s warm and put it in the chlorine , the chlorine will oxidise it to iron chloride . chlorine will react with all sorts of metals . you can make salt by burning the metal sodium in chlorine , and if you put in other metals like aluminium or iron they will also react .	chlorine reacts with almost all metals , but according to the professor , which one does not react with chlorine ?	chlorine reacts with almost all metals , but according to the professor , which one does not react with chlorine ?
here 's how this cycle unfolds . each month beginning around puberty , the hormone-producing pituitary gland in the brain starts releasing two substances into the blood : follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone . when they reach the ovaries , they encourage the internal egg cells to grow and mature .	the _____ in the brain is responsible for releasing hormones that trigger menstruation .	the _____ in the brain is responsible for releasing hormones that trigger menstruation .
so far , we have n't changed our brain 's destiny . what about sleep ? in slow-wave deep sleep , our glial cells rinse cerebral spinal fluid throughout our brains , clearing away metabolic waste that accumulated in our synapses while we were awake .	what is the connection between sleep and alzheimer ’ s ?	what is the connection between sleep and alzheimer ’ s ?
the greatest challenge for a nuclear reactor is to safely contain these products and keep them from harming humans or the environment . containment does n't stop mattering once the fuel is used up . in fact , it becomes an even greater storage problem . every one to two years , some spent fuel is removed from reactors and stored in pools of water that cool the waste and block its radioactive emissions . the irradiated fuel is a mix of uranium that failed to fission , fission products , and plutonium , a radioactive material not found in nature . this mix must be isolated from the environment until it has all safely decayed .	it is apparent that the spent radioactive fuel of nuclear reactors needs to be safely stored here on earth , however the radioactive lifetimes of the fuel products may long outlast the lifetime of social and political creations like states and nations . what new challenges for international cooperation might this unique storage problem pose ?	it is apparent that the spent radioactive fuel of nuclear reactors needs to be safely stored here on earth , however the radioactive lifetimes of the fuel products may long outlast the lifetime of social and political creations like states and nations . what new challenges for international cooperation might this unique storage problem pose ?
grizmo does n't need these particular skills to find and hunt down dinner in her food bowl today , but instinctually , viewing the living room from the top of the bookcase is exactly what she has evolved to do . as wild predators , cats are opportunistic and hunt whenever prey is available . since most cat prey are small , cats in the wild needed to eat many times each day , and use a stalk , pounce , kill , eat strategy to stay fed .	as prey , cats :	as prey , cats :
in some , light refracts too much , and in others , too little . eyes with a focal point in front of the retina are called myopic , or short-sighted . they can see close objects clearly , but those far away are out of focus .	which condition can be described as over-refracting light so that the focal point is in front of the retina ?	which condition can be described as over-refracting light so that the focal point is in front of the retina ?
as the roman empire split in two , these tribal armies played larger roles in its defense and internal power struggles . in the 5th century , a mercenary revolt lead by a soldier named odoacer captured rome and deposed the western emperor . odoacer and his ostrogoth successor theoderic technically remained under the eastern emperor 's authority and maintained roman traditions .	the 5th century soldier who deposed the western emperor was :	the 5th century soldier who deposed the western emperor was :
and , there are other frequently dividing cells in your body like skin cells , gut cells , and blood cells . so the list of unpleasant side effects of cancer treatment parallels these tissue types : hair loss , skin rashes , nausea , vomiting , fatigue , weight loss , and pain . that makes sense because these are the cells that get hit the hardest .	which is not a routine treatment recommended to cancer treatments ?	which is not a routine treatment recommended to cancer treatments ?
they can derive information , like its mass and the shape of its orbit . we can also hear gravitational waves by playing their signals through speakers , just like the music a radio extracts from radio waves . so those two black holes colliding sounds like this .	gravitational waves are very small and difficult to detect . what value do they have that made it worth working so hard to find them ?	gravitational waves are very small and difficult to detect . what value do they have that made it worth working so hard to find them ?
and in a bold statement , using all the psychology knowledge that i had from my schooling at kenyon college , i dropped my pants in front of 40 people on a set that all were , like , stunned . dmx laughed . he said , `` alright , my dude , put your pants back on , and i 'll get in the blood . ''	what was so shocking about mannion 's photoshoot with dmx ?	what was so shocking about mannion 's photoshoot with dmx ?
what connects one to the other ? the interest rate , also known as the time value of money . now , with a little bit of rearranging , we can figure out the future value of sheila 's money with this equation .	the financial term for the time value of money is usually summarized as _____ .	the financial term for the time value of money is usually summarized as _____ .
what connects one to the other ? the interest rate , also known as the time value of money . now , with a little bit of rearranging , we can figure out the future value of sheila 's money with this equation .	if we know the value of an investment today , the investment period and the interest rate we can then calculate its ________ .	if we know the value of an investment today , the investment period and the interest rate we can then calculate its ________ .
that 's why carbon dioxide is called a greenhouse gas . it creates a blanket of warmth , known as the greenhouse effect , that keeps our earth from freezing like mars . the more carbon dioxide blocks hang out in the atmosphere waiting to be cleared , the warmer earth becomes .	how does the greenhouse effect influence the climate on earth ?	how does the greenhouse effect influence the climate on earth ?
you know , i had a real rough time in school with add , and i have a phd . i earned a phd , but ... tough to pay attention -- biology , geology , physics , chemistry -- really tough for me . only one thing grabbed my attention , and it 's that planet called earth . but in this picture here , you 'll see that earth is mostly water .	gallo begins his talk by observing that in some ways , he ’ s an unlikely candidate to have earned a phd in science , because he had adhd and struggled in school . yet the ocean , he says , is the one thing that grabbed and held his attention . what grabs your attention in science class ( if anything ) ? what makes science an exciting topic to study , and/or how could science classes be improved , in your opinion ?	gallo begins his talk by observing that in some ways , he ’ s an unlikely candidate to have earned a phd in science , because he had adhd and struggled in school . yet the ocean , he says , is the one thing that grabbed and held his attention . what grabs your attention in science class ( if anything ) ? what makes science an exciting topic to study , and/or how could science classes be improved , in your opinion ?
a finished cartoon can then be scanned and adjusted , and the caption can be added on the computer with photoshop . new technologies are emerging for the cartoonist 's use in creating her cartoon . photoshop can serve as a tool for color and image .	what analogy does donnelly give to illustrate the many roles a cartoonist plays in developing a cartoon ?	what analogy does donnelly give to illustrate the many roles a cartoonist plays in developing a cartoon ?
a finished cartoon can then be scanned and adjusted , and the caption can be added on the computer with photoshop . new technologies are emerging for the cartoonist 's use in creating her cartoon . photoshop can serve as a tool for color and image .	regardless of the method the cartoonist uses to create the cartoon , what is the most important element to carry through from start to finish ?	regardless of the method the cartoonist uses to create the cartoon , what is the most important element to carry through from start to finish ?
exceptions to the size rule include bats , birds , moles , and turtles , but in each case , these animals have other adaptations that allow them to escape predators . but there are still cases where animals with similar defining features , like size and habitat , age at completely different rates . in these cases , genetic differences , like how each organism 's cells respond to threats , often account for the discrepancies in longevity .	in similar species of the same size but different lifespans , which factors may explain their differences in longevity ?	in similar species of the same size but different lifespans , which factors may explain their differences in longevity ?
and in fact , the addition of the salt ions adds more possible dance positions in the square dance , so it is favored for them to stay dancing with water . now , let 's take oil . with oil , the molecules are sort of interested in dancing with water , so entropy favors them joining the dance . the problem is that oil molecules are wearing gigantic ballgowns , and they 're way bigger than water molecules . so , when an oil molecule gets pulled in , their size is really disruptive to the dance and the random exchange of partners that the waters engage in , a very important part of the dance .	when oil molecules are put into water , they _______ .	when oil molecules are put into water , they _______ .
and in fact , the addition of the salt ions adds more possible dance positions in the square dance , so it is favored for them to stay dancing with water . now , let 's take oil . with oil , the molecules are sort of interested in dancing with water , so entropy favors them joining the dance . the problem is that oil molecules are wearing gigantic ballgowns , and they 're way bigger than water molecules . so , when an oil molecule gets pulled in , their size is really disruptive to the dance and the random exchange of partners that the waters engage in , a very important part of the dance .	a surfactant is a molecule that can dissolve in both oil and water and can be added to an oil spill to help facilitate the mixing of the oil and water ( which can make it easier to disperse an oil spill ) . can you build an explanation using the dance analogy for how a surfactant might work on mixing oil and water ? then try to build an explanation without using analogies or personifying the molecules . ( remember , by avoiding personification of molecules you can not say that they “ like ” or “ want ” things . just focus on energetics and entropy ! )	a surfactant is a molecule that can dissolve in both oil and water and can be added to an oil spill to help facilitate the mixing of the oil and water ( which can make it easier to disperse an oil spill ) . can you build an explanation using the dance analogy for how a surfactant might work on mixing oil and water ? then try to build an explanation without using analogies or personifying the molecules . ( remember , by avoiding personification of molecules you can not say that they “ like ” or “ want ” things . just focus on energetics and entropy ! )
for example , complex carbohydrates are polymers of simple sugars , proteins are polymers of amino acids , and nucleic acids , dna and rna , which contain our genetic information , are polymers of nucleotides . trees and plants are made of the polymer cellulose . it 's the tough stuff you find in bark and stems .	the super-absorbent polymer that can absorb over 200 times its weight in water and is used as a filler for disposable diapers is called _______________________ .	the super-absorbent polymer that can absorb over 200 times its weight in water and is used as a filler for disposable diapers is called _______________________ .
and it 's expected to drop further in the coming decades . what happened to the great promise of this technology ? it turns out nuclear power faces many hurdles , including high construction costs and public opposition . and behind these problems lie a series of unique engineering challenges .	nuclear science is relatively well understood but the technology has proven hard to build and operate . how does the example of nuclear power lead you to think about the relationship between scientific research and everyday technology ?	nuclear science is relatively well understood but the technology has proven hard to build and operate . how does the example of nuclear power lead you to think about the relationship between scientific research and everyday technology ?
so how does practice or repetition affect the inner workings of our brains ? the axons that exist in the white matter are wrapped with a fatty substance called myelin . and it 's this myelin covering , or sheath , that seems to change with practice . myelin is similar to insulation on electrical cables . it prevents energy loss from electrical signals that the brain uses , moving them more efficiently along neural pathways .	what is myelin ?	what is myelin ?
so , our hero swoops in at super speed , grabs her , and carries her to safety . that sounds very romantic , but , in reality , that girl will probably suffer more damage from the hero than the bullet if he moved her at super speed . newton 's first law of motion deals with inertia , which is the resistance to a change in its state of motion . so , an object will continue moving or staying at the same place unless something changes it .	please use newton ’ s first law of motion to explain what would happen to the girl ’ s brain when she is moved by the superhero at super speed .	please use newton ’ s first law of motion to explain what would happen to the girl ’ s brain when she is moved by the superhero at super speed .
for one-third of the population , looking at a book while moving along in a car or a boat or train or plane quickly makes them sick to their stomach . but why do we get motion sickness in the first place ? well , believe it or not , scientists are n't exactly sure .	how much of the population experiences motion sickness ?	how much of the population experiences motion sickness ?
for one-third of the population , looking at a book while moving along in a car or a boat or train or plane quickly makes them sick to their stomach . but why do we get motion sickness in the first place ? well , believe it or not , scientists are n't exactly sure .	what 's the common theory behind the cause of motion sickness ?	what 's the common theory behind the cause of motion sickness ?
for one-third of the population , looking at a book while moving along in a car or a boat or train or plane quickly makes them sick to their stomach . but why do we get motion sickness in the first place ? well , believe it or not , scientists are n't exactly sure .	you can get motion sickness while watching a movie , even if you are not physically moving .	you can get motion sickness while watching a movie , even if you are not physically moving .
this is a picture out of south sudan just a couple of months before the new country was born . i will continue to work as a researcher and a reporter in developing countries , but i do it with an altered ethic of seeing : i ask myself whether my pictures are pandering , whether they contribute to stereotypes , whether the images match the message , and am i complacent , or am i complicit ? thank you ( applause )	dodson says she now approaches her work with an “ altered ethic of seeing. ” what kinds of questions is she now asking herself ?	dodson says she now approaches her work with an “ altered ethic of seeing. ” what kinds of questions is she now asking herself ?
what is proof ? and why is it so important in mathematics ?	many law students take a course in formal logic . how does the form of the geometric proof that mr. kennedy describes apply to the law ?	many law students take a course in formal logic . how does the form of the geometric proof that mr. kennedy describes apply to the law ?
when we 're taking final exams , sitting in traffic or pondering pollution , we internalize stress . it all begins in the brain . the hypothalamus , the master controller of your hormones , releases something called corticotropin-releasing hormone .	your body has different systems in charge of regulating different processes . the system that controls reactions to stress is called the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis . explain the course of events in the hpa axis that ultimately leads to cortisol production starting from the brain . ( video hint : “ stress begins in the brain… ” )	your body has different systems in charge of regulating different processes . the system that controls reactions to stress is called the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis . explain the course of events in the hpa axis that ultimately leads to cortisol production starting from the brain . ( video hint : “ stress begins in the brain… ” )
the answer lies in the concept of a mathematical tipping point , which we can understand through the familiar game of billiards . the basic rule of billiard motion is that a ball will go straight until it hits a wall , then bounce off at an angle equal to its incoming angle . for simplicity 's sake , we 'll assume that there is no friction , so balls can keep moving indefinitely .	if one billiard is hit at a certain degree angle with no friction on a perfectly circular table , what will happen ? put these statements in the correct order : 1. the billiard will bounce off at the same angle 2. the billiard will go straight 3. the billiard will hit the wall at a certain angle 4. the billiard will continue to move and form a star shaped pattern	if one billiard is hit at a certain degree angle with no friction on a perfectly circular table , what will happen ? put these statements in the correct order : 1. the billiard will bounce off at the same angle 2. the billiard will go straight 3. the billiard will hit the wall at a certain angle 4. the billiard will continue to move and form a star shaped pattern
and speaking of fairness , just as space gets muddled with time , time also gets muddled with space , in an effect known as time dilation . no , at everyday speeds , such as tom 's car reaches , actually all the effects are much , much smaller than we 've illustrated them . oh , yet , careful experiments , for instance watching the behavior of tiny particles whizzing around the large hadron collider confirmed that the effects are real .	why does andrew appear thinner to tom when tom is driving in his car ?	why does andrew appear thinner to tom when tom is driving in his car ?
before 1868 , when the tokugawa shogunate fell and emperor meiji was restored to power , japan had practiced isolation from other countries , or sakoku . and thus , the development of kabuki had mostly been shaped by domestic influences . but even before this period , european artists , such as claude monet , had become interested in and inspired by japanese art , such as woodblock prints , as well as live performance .	two eastern philosophies shaped the early development of kabuki . the first , buddhism , was used by izumo no okuni to create unique dances , which were originally used for prayers . what was the second , and in what ways did kabuki change due to its implementation ?	two eastern philosophies shaped the early development of kabuki . the first , buddhism , was used by izumo no okuni to create unique dances , which were originally used for prayers . what was the second , and in what ways did kabuki change due to its implementation ?
and so , that should react with water with enormous violence . but , unfortunately , francium is very radioactive and you ca n't get a nice lump of francium the sort of size that you 'd like to throw in water to make the youtube video of the century . francium was named after france , was discovered by one of madame curie 's pupils in 1939 , five years after madame curie herself died . i always thought it was madame curie herself that discovered it but in fact it was discovered after her death . but its properties would probably be similar to those of cesium if it was not very radioactive .	who discovered francium ?	who discovered francium ?
when people , animals , or zombies move , it 's called migration . two concepts that affect migration are push and pull factors . push factors will make you want to leave somewhere . pull factors make you want to go to a place .	what are examples of push factors ?	what are examples of push factors ?
to answer these questions , we need to go back to the start of the book as we know it and understand how these elements came together to make something more than the sum of their parts . the earliest object that we think of as a book is the codex , a stack of pages bound along one edge . but the real turning point in book history was johannes gutenberg 's printing press in the mid-15th century .	what is a codex ?	what is a codex ?
the resulting idea that having thirteen people at a table was bad luck eventually expanded into thirteen being an unlucky number in general . now , this fear of the number thirteen , called triskaidekaphobia , is so common that many buildings around the world skip the thirteenth floor , with the numbers going straight from twelve to fourteen . of course , many people consider the story of the last supper to be true but other superstitions come from religious traditions that few people believe in or even remember .	triskaidekaphobia is the fear of :	triskaidekaphobia is the fear of :
he called in reinforcements just in time and saved the day for the union , setting the stage for the union almost-victory on day three . so , i hope that all of you who are so gifted with digital technologies will begin to think about how you can use them for history . it can be amazing .	how can we use digital technologies in new ways as we learn history ? what about other disciplines ?	how can we use digital technologies in new ways as we learn history ? what about other disciplines ?
these include areas typically associated with social cognition , attention , and cognitive control . moreover , when updating impressions based on people 's behaviors , activity in the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex and the superior temporal sulcus correlates with perceptions of how frequently those behaviors occur in daily life . in other words , the brain seems to be tracking low-level , statistical properties of behavior in order to make complex decisions regarding other people 's character .	when updating impressions based on people ’ s behaviors , activity in ____________ correlates with perceptions of how frequently those behaviors occur in daily life .	when updating impressions based on people ’ s behaviors , activity in ____________ correlates with perceptions of how frequently those behaviors occur in daily life .
deeper meaning . the second step to a sophisticated analysis is acknowledging complexity . let 's face it .	for a successful literary analysis , what must insightful conclusions ultimately lead to ?	for a successful literary analysis , what must insightful conclusions ultimately lead to ?
and the earliest known indian mathematical texts written between 800 and 600 b.c . state that a rope stretched across the diagonal of a square produces a square twice as large as the original one . that relationship can be derived from the pythagorean theorem .	a rope that is stretched across the diagonal of a square is used as the side length of a new square . the new square has ________ area as the original square .	a rope that is stretched across the diagonal of a square is used as the side length of a new square . the new square has ________ area as the original square .
historically , they have n't always been easy to apply and were conspicuously visible on the skin , but new formulations have made this less of an issue . chemical blockers , on the other hand , absorb the sun 's rays . they deteriorate more quickly than physical sunscreens because their ability to absorb the sun diminishes .	the sun ’ s ultraviolet rays are classified based on their :	the sun ’ s ultraviolet rays are classified based on their :
a person cultivated in this way works to help others , guiding them by moral inspiration rather than brute force . to put his philosophy into practice , confucius became an advisor to the ruler of his home state of lu . but after another state sent lu 's ruler a troop of dancing girls as a present and the ruler ignored his duties while enjoying the girls in private , confucius resigned in disgust .	why did confucius resign his position as an official in his home state of lu ?	why did confucius resign his position as an official in his home state of lu ?
the two old english words , when mashed together , became wilderness , meaning a tract of uncultivated land , primarily inhabited by undomesticated beasts . from the word wilderness , the word wilder was born . to wilder someone was to lead him astray or lure him into the woods .	what does the word ‘ wilderness ’ tell us about our understanding of nature ?	what does the word ‘ wilderness ’ tell us about our understanding of nature ?
microcolonies grow to become towers , while water channels flow around them , functioning like a basic circulatory system . but why do microbes build such complex communities when they could live alone ? for one thing , microbes living in a biofilm are rooted in a relatively stable microenvironment where they may have access to a nutrient source .	in natural environments , most microbes live :	in natural environments , most microbes live :
solar eclipses occur several times a year , but most often they are partial eclipses where the moon does n't quite line up with the sun . and , when the moon and sun are perfectly aligned , the moon is usually too far from earth in its orbit to completely cover the sun , creating an annular eclipse . during an annular or partial eclipse , the sky remains bright .	what type of eclipse occurs when the moon aligns with the sun but is too far from earth to block the sun completely ?	what type of eclipse occurs when the moon aligns with the sun but is too far from earth to block the sun completely ?
however , the earth prevents the solar wind from traveling straight into the planet by setting up a detour , the magnetosphere . the magnetosphere is formed by the earth 's magnetic currents and shields our planet from the solar winds by sending out the particles around the earth . their opportunity to continue the journey down to the atmosphere comes when the magnetosphere is overwhelmed by a new wave of travelers .	what is the shield around the earth that captures charged particles ?	what is the shield around the earth that captures charged particles ?
it starts out with a long vertical hole known as a wellbore drilled down through layers of sediment . when the well reaches 2500 - 3000 meters , it 's at its kickoff point where it can begin the process of horizontal drilling . it turns 90 degrees and extends horizontally for about 1.5 kilometers through a compressed black layer called the shale rock formation .	the point at which horizontal drilling begins is :	the point at which horizontal drilling begins is :
how often have you heard in response to a policy idea , `` that 's just never going to happen '' ? when you hear someone say that , they 're trying to define the boundaries of your civic imagination . the powerful citizen works to push those boundaries outward , to ask what if - what if it were possible ?	`` don ’ t let someone else define the boundaries of your civic imagination . '' explain and react to this statement .	`` don ’ t let someone else define the boundaries of your civic imagination . '' explain and react to this statement .
or , since hiccups mainly happen in mammals , that they started as a way for nursing infants to clear air from their stomachs . if you want to get rid of hiccups , it seems that increasing the amount of co2 in your blood can do the job , which is common remedies include drinking water , holding our breath , or breathing into a paper bag . yawning , another long , slow , involuntary form of breathing , is common throughout the animal kingdom and even happens in the womb .	according to this video holding your breath , drinking water or breathing into a paper bag can alleviate your hiccups because ...	according to this video holding your breath , drinking water or breathing into a paper bag can alleviate your hiccups because ...
and i wo n't even ask how he finds pants flexible enough to withstand the expansion . now , let 's explore the density of the two options mentioned above . density is defined as mass divided by volume . the human body is made out of bones and flesh , which has a relatively set density .	the definition of density is	the definition of density is
but this does n't mean that player two will win , or even that if you played 36 games as player two , you 'd win 20 of them . that 's why events like dice rolling are called random . even though you can calculate the theoretical probability of each outcome , you might not get the expected results if you examine just a few events . but if you repeat those random events many , many , many times , the frequency of a specific outcome , like a player two win , will approach its theoretical probability , that value we got by writing down all the possibilities and counting up the ones for each outcome .	you are more likely to approach theoretical probability of expected results , if a random event is _____ .	you are more likely to approach theoretical probability of expected results , if a random event is _____ .
[ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] the element of slowing down . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] the tea allows us to breathe , to move . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] the whole things starts with big splashes of tea .	creativity is inherent in all of us ; it is a free form of self-expression containing experiences and emotions . slobodan describes his creative process as a 'searching approach . ' how would you describe your creative process ?	creativity is inherent in all of us ; it is a free form of self-expression containing experiences and emotions . slobodan describes his creative process as a 'searching approach . ' how would you describe your creative process ?
[ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] the element of slowing down . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] the tea allows us to breathe , to move . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] the whole things starts with big splashes of tea .	how can art help us understand ourselves ?	how can art help us understand ourselves ?
each bus follows : powers of 11 , powers of 13 , powers of 17 , etc . since each of these numbers only has 1 and the natural number powers of their prime number base as factors , there are no overlapping room numbers . all the buses ' passengers fan out into rooms using unique room-assignment schemes based on unique prime numbers .	why are there no overlapping room numbers when we use the natural number powers of the prime numbers to assign room numbers ?	why are there no overlapping room numbers when we use the natural number powers of the prime numbers to assign room numbers ?
not really . sure , sitting for brief periods can help us recover from stress or recuperate from exercise . but nowadays , our lifestyles make us sit much more than we move around , and our bodies simply are n't built for such a sedentary existence .	sitting is necessary for resting .	sitting is necessary for resting .
not really . sure , sitting for brief periods can help us recover from stress or recuperate from exercise . but nowadays , our lifestyles make us sit much more than we move around , and our bodies simply are n't built for such a sedentary existence .	if i exercise 30 minutes a daily , the negative effects of sitting at work will be diminished .	if i exercise 30 minutes a daily , the negative effects of sitting at work will be diminished .
no need to flip through at all . the edge of this flip book is known as a space-time diagram of andrew 's journey through , you guessed it , space and time . we call the line that represents andrew 's journey his world line .	in a spacetime diagram , a “ worldline ” is ________ .	in a spacetime diagram , a “ worldline ” is ________ .
placebos seem to be capable of causing measurable change in blood pressure , heart rate , and the release of pain-reducing chemicals , like endorphins . that explains why subjects in pain studies often say placebos ease their discomfort . placebos may even reduce levels of stress hormones , like adrenaline , which can slow the harmful effects of an ailment .	patients in pain studies sometimes feel the benefits of placebos because :	patients in pain studies sometimes feel the benefits of placebos because :
and the lack of incentive to verify companies ' real owners makes it easy for people to cover their tracks . for example , someone may register a company in the name of a relative , an associate , or even a nominee director who acts on instruction from the company 's actual owner while keeping their name confidential . once registered , a company can do many of the same things as a human being , like opening bank accounts , buying and owning assets , and transferring money . what 's more , it can be listed as the owner of other companies , including ones opened in places with stricter disclosure rules .	which of the following things can a company not do ?	which of the following things can a company not do ?
you may be tempted to use these words interchangeably because they all refer to the same thing , but in fact , each one has a specific role in a sentence . `` i '' is a subject pronoun , `` me '' is an object pronoun , and `` myself '' is a reflexive or intensive pronoun . so what does that reveal about where each word belongs ?	the pronoun 'i ' is :	the pronoun 'i ' is :
you may be tempted to use these words interchangeably because they all refer to the same thing , but in fact , each one has a specific role in a sentence . `` i '' is a subject pronoun , `` me '' is an object pronoun , and `` myself '' is a reflexive or intensive pronoun . so what does that reveal about where each word belongs ?	the pronoun 'me ' is :	the pronoun 'me ' is :
you may be tempted to use these words interchangeably because they all refer to the same thing , but in fact , each one has a specific role in a sentence . `` i '' is a subject pronoun , `` me '' is an object pronoun , and `` myself '' is a reflexive or intensive pronoun . so what does that reveal about where each word belongs ?	'myself ' can be an intensive pronoun and its job in that role is to :	'myself ' can be an intensive pronoun and its job in that role is to :
and without the help of monks transcribing new copies , these texts and the philosophies they carried disappeared in western europe and were replaced by the works of people like st. benedict , which brings us back to these depictions of jesus and mary . because christianity had so fervently rejected physical beauty , these medieval artists purposefully avoided aesthetically pleasing forms . at first , decorations for churches or palaces were limited to interesting geometric patterns , which could be pleasing without inspiring sinful thoughts of physical pleasure .	because those in power did n't want people to worship physical beauty , artists did n't paint many people . do you think there is anything in art today that 's similar to portraiture in medieval times ? if so , what is it ? if not , explain why .	because those in power did n't want people to worship physical beauty , artists did n't paint many people . do you think there is anything in art today that 's similar to portraiture in medieval times ? if so , what is it ? if not , explain why .
but the exact mechanism by which this occurred remained a mystery until 1920 , when a young canadian surgeon named frederick banting and his student , charles best , advanced the findings of their german colleagues . working under professor macleod at the university of toronto , they confirmed that the pancreas was responsible for regulating blood glucose , successfully treating diabetic dogs by injecting them with an extract they had prepared from pancreas tissue . by 1922 , the researchers working with biochemist james collip were able to develop a similar extract from beef pancreas to first treat a 14-year-old diabetic boy , followed by six additional patients . the manufacturing process for this extract , now known as insulin , was eventually turned over to a pharmaceutical company that makes different types of injectable insulin to this day .	how do you think ancient egyptians and indians were able to detect the underlying abnormality in diabetic patients without having instruments to measure glucose ?	how do you think ancient egyptians and indians were able to detect the underlying abnormality in diabetic patients without having instruments to measure glucose ?
the colors that appear in the sky depend on the wavelength of the atom 's photon . excited oxygen atoms are responsible for the green and red colors , whereas excited nitrogen atoms produce blue and deep red hues . the collection of these interactions is what creates the northern and southern lights .	you ’ re a particle in the solar wind and your best friend is an oxygen atom . explain how this oxygen atom in the earth ’ s atmosphere gets “ excited ” to see you and what happens when you meet .	you ’ re a particle in the solar wind and your best friend is an oxygen atom . explain how this oxygen atom in the earth ’ s atmosphere gets “ excited ” to see you and what happens when you meet .
so it turns out that doctors have known since the time of hippocrates that different diseases smell different ways . for example , typhoid -- which causes fever , abdominal pain , delirium , and can kill you -- smells like freshly baked brown bread . other infections smell totally differently .	which disease gives off the smell of freshly baked brown bread ?	which disease gives off the smell of freshly baked brown bread ?
he was one of the most influential figures of the 20th century , forever changing the course of one of the world 's largest countries . but was he a hero who toppled an oppressive tyranny or a villain who replaced it with another ?	what were some causes behind discontent with czarist rule ?	what were some causes behind discontent with czarist rule ?
the values of these properties configure the particle , giving it a quantum state identity . if two electrons have the same quantum state , they 're identical . in a literal sense , our baseball is defined by a collective quantum state resulting from its many atoms .	over what distance is quantum entanglement possible , between two electrons ?	over what distance is quantum entanglement possible , between two electrons ?
what dictates the difference between a man and a mushroom is the sequence of these nucleotides in the long dna chain . the four differing nucleotide parts , called bases , are made of a few carbon , oxygen , hydrogen , nitrogen and phosphorus atoms , and the molecules look like this . and each of these four bases is attached to an identical backbone molecule , a sugar called deoxyribose - the `` d '' in dna - and a phosphate group .	the four differing nucleotide parts , called bases , are made of a few :	the four differing nucleotide parts , called bases , are made of a few :
if you remember back to the last caesium video , pete and neil tried to launch a bit of caesium metal into water with the small metallic collider and they had a few problems with surface area and caesium still being stuck in the glass as well . what i have been asked to do today , is take this ampoule of caesium into this piece of machinery here which is one of our glove boxes , try and get it out of the glass so that we can put it in as is .	the characteristic color of caesium metal might remind you of another metal . what metal would that be ?	the characteristic color of caesium metal might remind you of another metal . what metal would that be ?
on the left , we have a woman . two women together , they have an argument . ( laughter ) three women together , be careful , it 's adultery . so we have gone through almost 30 characters . by using this method , the first eight radicals will allow you to build 32 . the next group of eight characters will build an extra 32 . so with very little effort , you will be able to learn a couple hundred characters , which is the same as a chinese eight-year-old .	practice a few of the phrases that shaolan puts together using the 32 characters we learned earlier in the lesson .	practice a few of the phrases that shaolan puts together using the 32 characters we learned earlier in the lesson .
in order to facilitate this improved dance-date-getting process , i propose five changes to all schools that parallel harriet 's five ways to increase chemical reaction rates . first , i propose that we shrink the size of the hallways . this will make it more difficult to safely navigate the hallways and will cause more collisions than in larger hallways . and by increasing the number of collisions , we increase the likelihood that some of those collisions will have the correct alignment and enough energy to create a date to the dance .	in this analogy , shrinking the hallways is analogous to :	in this analogy , shrinking the hallways is analogous to :
but was he a hero who toppled an oppressive tyranny or a villain who replaced it with another ? it 's time to put lenin on the stand in history vs. lenin . `` order , order , hmm .	list three benefits and three drawbacks of the new system that lenin established .	list three benefits and three drawbacks of the new system that lenin established .
and the increased competition and influx of european weapons fueled warfare and instability that continues to this day . the atlantic slave trade also contributed to the development of racist ideology . most african slavery had no deeper reason than legal punishment or intertribal warfare , but the europeans who preached a universal religion , and who had long ago outlawed enslaving fellow christians , needed justification for a practice so obviously at odds with their ideals of equality .	when the atlantic slave trade was outlawed in 1807 , what started happening to tribal kingdoms that gained power and influence during the trade 's existence ?	when the atlantic slave trade was outlawed in 1807 , what started happening to tribal kingdoms that gained power and influence during the trade 's existence ?
and the increased competition and influx of european weapons fueled warfare and instability that continues to this day . the atlantic slave trade also contributed to the development of racist ideology . most african slavery had no deeper reason than legal punishment or intertribal warfare , but the europeans who preached a universal religion , and who had long ago outlawed enslaving fellow christians , needed justification for a practice so obviously at odds with their ideals of equality .	how did the atlantic slave trade contribute to a racist ideology that continues to this day ?	how did the atlantic slave trade contribute to a racist ideology that continues to this day ?
no matter where you are , the minute and second are the exact same . but , before the railroads , there was no need for a national or global clock , and each town kept its own local time . so when it was 12 noon in chicago , it was 12:07 p.m. in indianapolis , 11:50 a.m. in st. louis , and 11:27 a.m. in omaha .	explain some difficulties that could arise if there were no such thing as standard time ( in other words , why is there a need for a global clock ? ) .	explain some difficulties that could arise if there were no such thing as standard time ( in other words , why is there a need for a global clock ? ) .
that question does n't make a lot of sense at first , but an abstract mathematical field called group theory holds the answer , if you 'll bear with me . in math , a group is a particular collection of elements . that might be a set of integers , the face of a rubik 's cube , or anything , so long as they follow four specific rules , or axioms . axiom one : all group operations must be closed or restricted to only group elements . so in our square , for any operation you do , like turn it one way or the other , you 'll still wind up with an element of the group .	a group can be made of anything as long as the elements follow _____ rules	a group can be made of anything as long as the elements follow _____ rules
findings show that we adapt to extrinsic and material things , like a new car or a bigger house , much faster than we do to novel experiences , like visiting a new place or learning a new skill . so by that reasoning , the more you spend money on experiences rather than things , the happier you 'd be . and there 's another way to turn your money into happiness : spend it on other people . in one study , participants were given some money and were either asked to spend it on themselves or on someone else .	you win a large sum of money and want to be sure that what you spend it on will make you happy . based on what you learned in this lesson , what would you do ?	you win a large sum of money and want to be sure that what you spend it on will make you happy . based on what you learned in this lesson , what would you do ?
without a doubt , the most exciting scientific observation of 2012 was the discovery of a new particle at the cern laboratory that could be the higgs boson , a particle named after physicist peter higgs . the higgs field is thought to give mass to fundamental , subatomic particles like the quarks and leptons that make up ordinary matter . the higgs bosons are wiggles in the field , like the bump you see when you twitch a rope .	the higgs field gives subatomic particles their	the higgs field gives subatomic particles their
without a doubt , the most exciting scientific observation of 2012 was the discovery of a new particle at the cern laboratory that could be the higgs boson , a particle named after physicist peter higgs . the higgs field is thought to give mass to fundamental , subatomic particles like the quarks and leptons that make up ordinary matter . the higgs bosons are wiggles in the field , like the bump you see when you twitch a rope .	a point-like subatomic particle acquires mass because	a point-like subatomic particle acquires mass because
without a doubt , the most exciting scientific observation of 2012 was the discovery of a new particle at the cern laboratory that could be the higgs boson , a particle named after physicist peter higgs . the higgs field is thought to give mass to fundamental , subatomic particles like the quarks and leptons that make up ordinary matter . the higgs bosons are wiggles in the field , like the bump you see when you twitch a rope .	how does the higgs boson , which is thought to be a particle , differ from other familiar subatomic particles , like electrons and quarks ?	how does the higgs boson , which is thought to be a particle , differ from other familiar subatomic particles , like electrons and quarks ?
that 's ten thousand times more power than the planet 's population uses . so is it possible that one day the world could be completely reliant on solar energy ? to answer that question , we first need to examine how solar panels convert solar energy to electrical energy . solar panels are made up of smaller units called solar cells .	what are the major social and political barriers to using solar energy ?	what are the major social and political barriers to using solar energy ?
and this focus on individual happiness soon led to other transformations , such as easing restrictions on divorce and more people marrying at a later age . so , as we continue to debate the role and definition of marriage in the modern world , it might help to keep in mind that marriage has always been shaped by society , and as a society 's structure , values and goals change over time , its ideas of marriage will continue to change along with them .	why would the authorities in an agricultural society have official laws governing marriage ?	why would the authorities in an agricultural society have official laws governing marriage ?
and these could be about adam and eve , or about the supremacy of a caste or gender , or about the vitality of a supposed race , or about the past glories of an empire or civilization , or about a piece of land that some imagined deity has gifted . people say that origin stories and identity myths make us feel secure . what 's wrong with that ?	why do some people believe that identity myths and origin stories make us feel secure ?	why do some people believe that identity myths and origin stories make us feel secure ?
legend has it that as galvani was studying a frog 's leg , he brushed a metal instrument up against one of its nerves , making the leg muscles jerk . galvani called this animal electricity , believing that a type of electricity was stored in the very stuff of life . but volta disagreed , arguing that it was the metal itself that made the leg twitch .	scientists in the 1700 's were aware of electricity , but they were not sure _____	scientists in the 1700 's were aware of electricity , but they were not sure _____
we used rotoscoping for her , but that 's another lesson . always begin by sketching and designing your puppet in a neutral pose like this . this will allow it to easily transition into and out of a variety of extreme positions .	always begin by sketching and designing your puppet in a ________ .	always begin by sketching and designing your puppet in a ________ .
now the number three is , of course , easy to find in any work of storytelling , but it 's particularly prominent in `` the magic flute '' : three trials , three ladies , three spirits , and three doors , much of the music is written in e-flat major , which has three flats in its key signature , and historically , masonic rituals began with three knocks . the opera references them by opening with three majestic chords complete with dramatic pauses . those chords , which reoccur throughout the opera , serve another purpose . they capture the dramatic arc of the opera in miniature . the first chord , e-flat major , is in its most natural root position , simple and unadorned .	three chords within the opera itself mirror the drama of the opera but in miniature . explain .	three chords within the opera itself mirror the drama of the opera but in miniature . explain .
but even though the insect brain is organized very differently from ours , there are some striking similarities . for example , most insects have smell detectors on their antennae , similar to those found in human noses . and our primary olfactory brain regions look and function rather similarly , with clusters of neurons activated and deactivated in precise timing to code for specific scents .	most insects smell using their :	most insects smell using their :
this means they may change suddenly , spontaneously . the radioactive nucleus flings out a small particle and transforms into another element , just like that . for example , the carbon nucleus can eject a fast-moving electron and turn into a nitrogen nucleus . there are two different particles that can be emitted from radioactive nuclei , but never together . the very fast electron is known as a beta particle .	a radioactive nucleus :	a radioactive nucleus :
nonetheless , the bank was established by hamilton and president washington . when jefferson was sworn in as president in 1801 , he pledged to reduce the size and scope of the national government . but , of course , things did n't go exactly as he had planned .	when thomas jefferson was elected president in 1800 , he pledged to	when thomas jefferson was elected president in 1800 , he pledged to
voltaire struggled with the question of good and evil the problem at the heart of his best-known work , candide which was published in 1759 and was a best seller from the moment it appeared . translated into every possible language , it remains the most widely read work of the european enlightenment . it 's even left its mark on our language expressions like 'pour encourager les autres ' to encourage the others or 'il faut cultiver le jardin ' , we must cultivate our garden have entered common usage .	what is the most widely read book of the european enlightenment ?	what is the most widely read book of the european enlightenment ?
there are many other examples of sophisticated animal communication , such as in dolphins , which use whistles to identify age , location , names , and gender . they can also understand some grammar in a gestural language researchers use to communicate with them . however , grammar is not seen in the dolphin 's natural communication . while these communication systems may have some of the qualities of language we 've identified , none display all four .	grammar :	grammar :
but if we let the clock run , the cylinders slowly move downward . energy is leaving the clock . in fact , when the cylinders get to the bottom , all the energy that we put in will have left .	compare this mechanical clock to a modern wristwatch . where does the energy to run a wristwatch come from ? where does the energy to power an automobile come from ?	compare this mechanical clock to a modern wristwatch . where does the energy to run a wristwatch come from ? where does the energy to power an automobile come from ?
get ready to trade in those cuff links for some apple seeds , all because you reached out to your weak ties . that 's your key , remember ? every conversation is an opportunity .	networking is the key to your :	networking is the key to your :
in response , cells grow listless and metabolism slows . people with hypothyroidism see symptoms in weight gain , sluggishness , sensitivity to cold , swollen joints and feeling low . luckily , there are medical treatments that can help trigger the thyroid 's activities again , and bring the body back to a steady metabolic rate .	what are the symptoms of hyperthyroidism ?	what are the symptoms of hyperthyroidism ?
when we do this , we are doing positive work , adding energy to the clock , and that energy is stored as gravitational potential energy . we can calculate the amount of work done by multiplying the force we apply times the distance over which we apply the force . to raise the metal cylinders , we need to apply a force equal to their weight .	how can you calculate the amount of work done by a force on an object ?	how can you calculate the amount of work done by a force on an object ?
all these networks and pathways work together to create your pain experience , to prevent further tissue damage , and help you to cope with pain . this system is similar for everyone , but the sensitivity and efficacy of these brain circuits determines how much you feel and cope with pain . this is why some people have greater pain than others and why some develop chronic pain that does not respond to treatment , while others respond well .	what determines how much you feel and cope with pain ?	what determines how much you feel and cope with pain ?
here , again , macaroni salad provides a nice example . if you look at the pasta , you 'll notice it 's made of a lot of this stuff , starch , which is this molecule , otherwise known as amylose . turns out , if you break some bonds , amylose is made up of smaller molecules of glucose , a simple sugar .	which is the starch molecule ?	which is the starch molecule ?
the lung is thought to have evolved as a structure to allow early fish , many of which lived in warm , stagnant water with little oxygen , to take advantage of the abundant oxygen in the air overhead . when descendants of these animals later moved onto land , they moved from gill-based ventilation to air-breathing with lungs . that 's similar to the much more rapid changes faced by frogs today as they transition from tadpoles with gills to adults with lungs .	many zoologists believe that vertebrate animals ( animals with backbones ) evolved first in an aquatic environment , and later moved up onto land . why might our first fish-like ancestors have moved to the land ?	many zoologists believe that vertebrate animals ( animals with backbones ) evolved first in an aquatic environment , and later moved up onto land . why might our first fish-like ancestors have moved to the land ?
minimize potential distractions by turning off the computer or tv and putting your cell phone on airplane mode . in one study , researchers observed 260 students studying . on average , those students were able to stay on task for only six minutes at a time .	when facebook , cell phones , and laptops were available to students while studying , how long on average were the students able to stay on task in the one research study ?	when facebook , cell phones , and laptops were available to students while studying , how long on average were the students able to stay on task in the one research study ?
sounds a little like a drug , right ? we also see a shift when looking at multi-tasking . you might think that those who use social media or constantly switch between work and websites are better at multitasking , but studies have found that when comparing heavy media users to others , they perform much worse during task switching tests . increased multi-tasking online reduces your brains ability to filter out interferences , and can even make it harder for your brain to commit information to memory .	one advantage of achieving proficiency in heavy media use is the ability to multi-task effectively .	one advantage of achieving proficiency in heavy media use is the ability to multi-task effectively .
but upon his release about a year later , he immediately began to rebuild the movement . and then , in 1929 , the great depression happened . it led to american banks withdrawing their loans from germany , and the already struggling german economy collapsed overnight .	why was germany hit harder by the great depression than any other european nation ?	why was germany hit harder by the great depression than any other european nation ?
but upon his release about a year later , he immediately began to rebuild the movement . and then , in 1929 , the great depression happened . it led to american banks withdrawing their loans from germany , and the already struggling german economy collapsed overnight .	what role did the great depression of 1929 play in making the nazi party a force in german politics ?	what role did the great depression of 1929 play in making the nazi party a force in german politics ?
but one pythagorean named hippasus discovered something disturbing . some quantities , like the diagonal of a square with sides of length one could n't be expressed by any combination of whole numbers or fractions , no matter how small . these numbers , which we call irrational numbers , were perceived as a threat to the pythagorean 's notion of a perfect universe .	what does “ commensurable ” mean ? when are two quantities commensurable ? and when are two quantities incommensurable ?	what does “ commensurable ” mean ? when are two quantities commensurable ? and when are two quantities incommensurable ?
but one pythagorean named hippasus discovered something disturbing . some quantities , like the diagonal of a square with sides of length one could n't be expressed by any combination of whole numbers or fractions , no matter how small . these numbers , which we call irrational numbers , were perceived as a threat to the pythagorean 's notion of a perfect universe .	can you make some examples of commensurable and incommensurable quantities ? explain .	can you make some examples of commensurable and incommensurable quantities ? explain .
technically , there 's nothing wrong with that . these two sentences can stand alone . but imagine they appeared in a long list of other sentences , all of the same length , each separated by periods .	which is the better sentence and why ? a. i took two months off to go to paris , france , crete , greece , istanbul , turkey , and london , england . b. i took two months off to go to paris , france ; crete , greece ; istanbul , turkey ; and london , england .	which is the better sentence and why ? a. i took two months off to go to paris , france , crete , greece , istanbul , turkey , and london , england . b. i took two months off to go to paris , france ; crete , greece ; istanbul , turkey ; and london , england .
or you brush your forearm against a hot rack while removing a cake from the oven and you immediately recoil . light touch produced pleasure , fear , or pain . how can one kind of cell have so many functions ?	light touch can produce pleasure , fear , or pain . one type of neuron can produce sensations that are interpreted differently by the central nervous system .	light touch can produce pleasure , fear , or pain . one type of neuron can produce sensations that are interpreted differently by the central nervous system .
but the evidence suggests she was actually pretty good . she competently fulfilled the traditional roles of the office . she was a great builder .	which of the following was not a traditional pharaonic role fulfilled by hatshepsut ?	which of the following was not a traditional pharaonic role fulfilled by hatshepsut ?
a little bit . many people see calcium as a very english element , unlike strontium which was discovered in scotland , because of the white cliffs of dover , the gateway for many people when they first come to england . they ’ re made of calcium carbonate .	why did the professor say that many people see calcium as a very “ english element ” ?	why did the professor say that many people see calcium as a very “ english element ” ?
boring and monotonous , spending endless hours in the lab with no social interaction ? maybe for some but not tycho brahe . the 16th century scholar who accurately predicted planetary motion and cataloged hundreds of stars before the telescope had been invented also had a cosmic-sized personal life .	what event early in brahe ’ s life sparked his interest in astronomy ?	what event early in brahe ’ s life sparked his interest in astronomy ?
boring and monotonous , spending endless hours in the lab with no social interaction ? maybe for some but not tycho brahe . the 16th century scholar who accurately predicted planetary motion and cataloged hundreds of stars before the telescope had been invented also had a cosmic-sized personal life .	besides astronomy , brahe pursued what other science-related interest ?	besides astronomy , brahe pursued what other science-related interest ?
boring and monotonous , spending endless hours in the lab with no social interaction ? maybe for some but not tycho brahe . the 16th century scholar who accurately predicted planetary motion and cataloged hundreds of stars before the telescope had been invented also had a cosmic-sized personal life .	were tycho brahe ’ s unusual personal experiences an asset or a distraction to his astronomy career ?	were tycho brahe ’ s unusual personal experiences an asset or a distraction to his astronomy career ?
so here we have tin , but this is a different sample of tin from what people might be used to because most people see tin in foil , or they think it is tin foil that they use to wrap up the chicken , mostly that is aluminium foil . tin has the symbol sn because it comes from the latin word stannum which means tin and in fact if you go to devon in the southwest of england you will find that some of the towns there are called stannary towns because that ’ s where they used to mine and trade in tin . tin has a very old role in trade and in technology .	in devon , southwest of england , why are some towns described as stannary towns ?	in devon , southwest of england , why are some towns described as stannary towns ?
they were so strange looking that someone said the new districts looked like a salamander . the boston gazette added gerry 's name to the word salamander , and voilà ! gerrymandering , the process of dividing up and redrawing districts to give your political party an advantage .	what word was added to the massachusetts governor 's name to make the word gerrymandering ?	what word was added to the massachusetts governor 's name to make the word gerrymandering ?
first , see this here ? this is the aperture . it 's the hole that light passes through .	with a very small aperture we will get	with a very small aperture we will get
but it is most likely that he or someone else erased the images so that people would forget that a woman ever sat on egypt 's throne . this gender anomaly was simply too much of a threat to maat and had to be obliterated from history . happily , the ancient censors were not quite thorough enough .	what is maat ?	what is maat ?
but it is most likely that he or someone else erased the images so that people would forget that a woman ever sat on egypt 's throne . this gender anomaly was simply too much of a threat to maat and had to be obliterated from history . happily , the ancient censors were not quite thorough enough .	explain the concept of maat .	explain the concept of maat .
as for the question of running out of space , the issue is n't so much about total land in the world as it is that large populations cluster together within cities . most of the big cities in the world may run out of suitable burial grounds within a century . for london , it 's even sooner . that may happen by 2035 .	why are cities like london , tokyo , and new york facing shortages in burial ground space ? what is the best way you can suggest for solving this problem ?	why are cities like london , tokyo , and new york facing shortages in burial ground space ? what is the best way you can suggest for solving this problem ?
so we have our caesium under oil . we now need to lift it up using the new device , and then drop it in the water , and let ’ s see what kind of chemical reaction it does today . everybody ready ?	as we can see , all alkali metals react violently with water . what is the correct order of their increasing reactivity ?	as we can see , all alkali metals react violently with water . what is the correct order of their increasing reactivity ?
once they are convinced , it 's a piece of cake . bonds break , atoms rearrange , and the rest of the reaction happens automatically . after that first push , the body does n't need to put in any more energy to help the reaction along .	in a chemical reaction , atoms do which of the following ?	in a chemical reaction , atoms do which of the following ?
once they are convinced , it 's a piece of cake . bonds break , atoms rearrange , and the rest of the reaction happens automatically . after that first push , the body does n't need to put in any more energy to help the reaction along .	the atoms entering a chemical reaction are known as reactants , while atoms exiting a chemical reaction are known as products . trace the course of a chemical reaction from reactants to products , including the enzyme .	the atoms entering a chemical reaction are known as reactants , while atoms exiting a chemical reaction are known as products . trace the course of a chemical reaction from reactants to products , including the enzyme .
the mere presence of stuff curves the space-time , and curving space-time moves the stuff around . this is gravity , according to einstein . previously , isaac newton had explained gravity using the ideas of force and acceleration , without any wibbily wobbly space-time , and that did pretty well .	the expansion of the universe fits perfectly into einstein ’ s equations of gravity . but the expansion is speeding up , which is more surprising , because everything ought to be pulled back together . how can accelerated expansion be reconciled with einstein ’ s theory of gravity ? why do some people think it points to a new , better theory beyond einstein ’ s ?	the expansion of the universe fits perfectly into einstein ’ s equations of gravity . but the expansion is speeding up , which is more surprising , because everything ought to be pulled back together . how can accelerated expansion be reconciled with einstein ’ s theory of gravity ? why do some people think it points to a new , better theory beyond einstein ’ s ?
and it 's nanometers and microns that are the domain of the scanning electron microscope . so , let 's start with something on the body that we can measure at about 100 microns wide , and that would be a human hair , which now you can see is covered with scales , just like all of our hairs , and in fact , just like all mammal hairs . we 're going to plunge into the body now , and we 've landed in the thyroid gland .	what part of the body is about 100 microns wide ?	what part of the body is about 100 microns wide ?
the most likely answer is the simplest . that also explains why the aztecs used a base 20 , or vigesimal system . but other bases are possible , too . babylonian numerals were sexigesimal , or base 60 .	what other bases , besides 10 , can be used to express numerical quantities ?	what other bases , besides 10 , can be used to express numerical quantities ?
they were peaceful . despite archaeologists finding 1500 sites , they have found very little evidence of warfare , almost no weapons . thanks thought bubble .	what concept are you finding difficult to understand ?	what concept are you finding difficult to understand ?
the war against cancer is a constant struggle , and scientists are hard at work developing new methods against metastasis . of recent interest is immunotherapy , a modality which involves harnessing the power of the immune system to destroy the migrating cells . this can be done in different ways , such as training immune cells to recognize cancerous cells via vaccines .	which of the following is not a type of immunotherapy ?	which of the following is not a type of immunotherapy ?
you may recognize the chorion as the thin skin you peel away on a hard boiled egg . think of this waterproof membrane as the in and out doors of the egg . it 's the entrance for oxygen and exit for carbon dioxide .	how do the various membranes within the egg structure help the developing membrane ?	how do the various membranes within the egg structure help the developing membrane ?
that 's a classic case of a misplaced modifier , a common grammatical mistake that can dramatically change the meaning of a sentence . and lest you think this is a bit far-fetched , confusing headlines like this appear all the time . modifiers are words , phrases , and clauses that add information about other parts of a sentence , which is usually helpful .	why do you think misplaced modifiers occur so often in newspaper headlines ?	why do you think misplaced modifiers occur so often in newspaper headlines ?
well watch this . here ’ s what ’ s happening : air is a fluid . when i force air across the top of the paper , that stream pulls other air along , due to viscosity , which is like the friction of fluids . this leaves an area of low pressure behind , and the paper is pulled up to fill it . this is called the coandă effect .	air acts like a fluid , so when it moves in such a way as to create an area of low air pressure , what happens to the air surrounding that low pressure area ?	air acts like a fluid , so when it moves in such a way as to create an area of low air pressure , what happens to the air surrounding that low pressure area ?
in other words , those 3,000 galaxies were seen in just a tiny speck of the universe , approximately one two-millionth of the night sky . to put all this in perspective , the average human measures about 1.7 meters . with earth 's diameter at 12,700 kilometers , that 's nearly 7.5 million humans lined up head to toe .	put the following cosmic structures in order from biggest to smallest :	put the following cosmic structures in order from biggest to smallest :
and by studying how tardigrades survive prolonged exposure to the vacuum of outer space , scientists can generate clues about the environmental limits of life and how to safeguard astronauts . in the process , tardigrades could even help us answer a critical question : could life survive on planets much less hospitable than our own ?	some of the stresses that tardigrades can survive are well beyond what they would have ever encountered naturally . how could tardigrades have evolved tolerances to these conditions ?	some of the stresses that tardigrades can survive are well beyond what they would have ever encountered naturally . how could tardigrades have evolved tolerances to these conditions ?
but if the microbe produces the enzymes we are looking for , it will be able to break down cellulose , use it for energy , and thrive in its test tube environment . if our microbial sample can break down the cellulose in the test tube , there is a chance we could use it to create a renewable and sustainable source of fuel for our cars from cellulose .	what is the main problem with trying to use cellulose as a source of biofuels ?	what is the main problem with trying to use cellulose as a source of biofuels ?
but if the microbe produces the enzymes we are looking for , it will be able to break down cellulose , use it for energy , and thrive in its test tube environment . if our microbial sample can break down the cellulose in the test tube , there is a chance we could use it to create a renewable and sustainable source of fuel for our cars from cellulose .	if cellulose is both abundant and renewable , why aren ’ t we using it more as a source of fuel ? what obstacles are currently preventing cellulose from being more widely used ?	if cellulose is both abundant and renewable , why aren ’ t we using it more as a source of fuel ? what obstacles are currently preventing cellulose from being more widely used ?
but if the microbe produces the enzymes we are looking for , it will be able to break down cellulose , use it for energy , and thrive in its test tube environment . if our microbial sample can break down the cellulose in the test tube , there is a chance we could use it to create a renewable and sustainable source of fuel for our cars from cellulose .	what evidence do we have that cellulose could even be broken down into fuel ? how might bioprospecting help with this ?	what evidence do we have that cellulose could even be broken down into fuel ? how might bioprospecting help with this ?
( bumping noises ) ( buzzing ) epic battles between carnivores like these are just one way to get food . but the real powers of this place come from phytoplankton . single-celled life that transforms sunlight and carbon dioxide into edible gold .	what distinguishes phytoplankton from other kinds of plankton ? why are phytoplankton important ?	what distinguishes phytoplankton from other kinds of plankton ? why are phytoplankton important ?
there is one rare form of aphasia called primary progressive aphasia , or ppa , which is not caused by stroke or brain injury , but is actually a form of dementia in which language loss is the first symptom . the goal in treating ppa is to maintain language function for as long as possible before other symptoms of dementia eventually occur . however , when aphasia is acquired from a stroke or brain trauma , language improvement may be achieved through speech therapy .	ppa is a type of :	ppa is a type of :
since the 1980s , climate change has led to significantly less snowfall , but you 'd still struggle to spot a tawny owl because nowadays , they 're brown . the brown color variant is the genetically dominant form of plumage in this species , but historically , the recessive pale gray variant triumphed because of its selective advantage in helping these predators blend in . however , less snow cover reduces opportunities for camouflage , so lately , this gray color variant has been losing the battle against natural selection .	what is the genetically dominant form of plumage for tawny owls ?	what is the genetically dominant form of plumage for tawny owls ?
[ ♪ music ♪ ] we have everybody here— murderers and rapists , sex offenders , drug addicts— everybody . [ 1 out of every 100 americans is currently behind bars ] my name is dennis . i 'm 52 years old .	at the start of the film , it states that 1 out of every _____ americans is currently behind bars .	at the start of the film , it states that 1 out of every _____ americans is currently behind bars .
a dolphin designated as `` the net-maker '' kicks up mud while another gives the signal for the other dolphins to simultaneously line up and catch the escaping fish . achieving a goal like this requires deliberate planning and cooperation , which , in turn , requires some form of intentional communication . dolphins pass down their communication methods and other skills from generation to generation . different dolphin populations exhibit variations in greetings , hunting strategies , and other behaviors . this sort of cultural transmission even extends to tool use .	what are some of the ways communication might be used for cooperative hunting ?	what are some of the ways communication might be used for cooperative hunting ?
jail tastes like cold , hard bacon while derek tastes like earwax . welcome to synesthesia , the neurological phenomenon that couples two or more senses in 4 % of the population . a synesthete might not only hear my voice , but also see it , taste it , or feel it as a physical touch .	what percentage of the population experiences synesthesia ?	what percentage of the population experiences synesthesia ?
but , in spite of this new holiday , it would be a long time before the changes that workers wanted became a reality . in 1938 , during the great depression that left millions without jobs , president franklin d. roosevelt signed a law calling for an eight-hour work day , a five-day work week , and an end to child labor , some of the first federal protections for american workers . as america and canada celebrate labor day , most of the two countries ' children enjoy a day off from school .	the american federal law ending child labor was signed into law in 1938 by president :	the american federal law ending child labor was signed into law in 1938 by president :
when emperor qin shi huang unified the states in 221 bce , the tibetan plateau and pacific ocean became natural barriers , but the mountains in the north remained vulnerable to mongol , turkish , and xiongnu invasions . to defend against them , the emperor expanded the small walls built by his predecessors , connecting some and fortifying others . as the structures grew from lintao in the west to liaodong in the east , they collectively became known as the long wall . to accomplish this task , the emperor enlisted soldiers and commoners , not always voluntarily .	which emperor first consolidated the many walls into what became known as the `` long wall '' ?	which emperor first consolidated the many walls into what became known as the `` long wall '' ?
his first container ship , the ideal x , sailed from shed 154 at marsh street , port newark with 58 well-filled boxes . it was the beginning of the container era , shrinking our world and enlarging human choice .	the video concludes by crediting containerization with “ shrinking our world and enlarging human choice. ” “ human choice ” might mean consumer choice—that is , expanding the range of products available for people to buy—but what other kinds of “ human choice ” does globalization enlarge ?	the video concludes by crediting containerization with “ shrinking our world and enlarging human choice. ” “ human choice ” might mean consumer choice—that is , expanding the range of products available for people to buy—but what other kinds of “ human choice ” does globalization enlarge ?
yet knowing more about its fascinating and often cruel history , as well as its production today , tells us where these associations originate and what they hide . so as you unwrap your next bar of chocolate , take a moment to consider that not everything about chocolate is sweet .	chocolate is made into cakes , cookies , candy and ice creams . what are the chemical properties of chocolate that enables the product to be transformed into so many other items ?	chocolate is made into cakes , cookies , candy and ice creams . what are the chemical properties of chocolate that enables the product to be transformed into so many other items ?
no . so , when you ca n't be seen by others , you also can not see . ouch !	an invisible person can be seen by others once _____ lands on them .	an invisible person can be seen by others once _____ lands on them .
despite having no external cues , he fell asleep , woke up , and ate at fixed intervals . this became known as a circadian rhythm from the latin for `` about a day . '' scientists later found these rhythms affect our hormone secretion , how our bodies process food , and even the effects of drugs on our bodies .	which are the main proteins in the circadian rhythm ?	which are the main proteins in the circadian rhythm ?
think of it as a cycle . the journey begins and ends in a hero 's ordinary world , but the quest passes through an unfamiliar , special world . along the way , there are some key events .	in many stories , the hero must cross a physical barrier that separates the ordinary world from the special world , but the two worlds aren ’ t always physical places . can you think of a story that follows a hero ’ s journey through a “ special world ” of unfamiliar emotional territory ?	in many stories , the hero must cross a physical barrier that separates the ordinary world from the special world , but the two worlds aren ’ t always physical places . can you think of a story that follows a hero ’ s journey through a “ special world ” of unfamiliar emotional territory ?
in the end , competition is all about resources . if one species eliminates another , it keeps more space and food for itself . although this dramatic life cycle occurs beyond the limits of our vision , microbial communities provide humans and other species with tangible , and sometimes even delicious , benefits . microbes make up a major fraction of the biomass on earth and play a critical role within the global ecosystem that supports all larger organisms , including us .	at the same time that cooperation occurs in a biofilm , fierce competition arises between different microbial species . why might one species act to eliminate another species in a biofilm , and how do microbes kill or slow the growth of competing species ?	at the same time that cooperation occurs in a biofilm , fierce competition arises between different microbial species . why might one species act to eliminate another species in a biofilm , and how do microbes kill or slow the growth of competing species ?
the industry credits china , japan , germany , south korea and , of course , the united states itself . just think for a moment of the trillions of parts and finished goods moving cheaply around the world every second , a small portion by air , but most by sea . we call it globalization , but the man who basically made globalization a reality in our lives is too little known .	mclean ’ s invention speeded up the exchange of goods around the world . what inventions have speeded up the exchange of ideas ? have the effects been positive , negative , or a mixed bag ?	mclean ’ s invention speeded up the exchange of goods around the world . what inventions have speeded up the exchange of ideas ? have the effects been positive , negative , or a mixed bag ?
a , c , e , d , b , k. no , this is n't some random , out of order alphabet . these are vitamins , and just like letters build words , they 're the building blocks that keep the body running . vitamins are organic compounds we need to ingest in small amounts to keep functioning .	how many vitamins are necessary to keep the human body running ?	how many vitamins are necessary to keep the human body running ?
stored in a very old glass bowl . ytterbium is one of three lanthanides , which was named after a swedish town called ytterby which is where they were all discovered . ytterbium , terbium and erbium were all derivatives of that town name .	where was ytterbium discovered , together with two other lanthanides and yttrium ?	where was ytterbium discovered , together with two other lanthanides and yttrium ?
you 're lucky you found this video to sort it out . to define comedy , you should first ask why it seems comedy defies definition . the answer 's simple .	what did bergson argue comedy tends to target ?	what did bergson argue comedy tends to target ?
you 're lucky you found this video to sort it out . to define comedy , you should first ask why it seems comedy defies definition . the answer 's simple .	in which of the following works did aristotle write about comedy ?	in which of the following works did aristotle write about comedy ?
this means they can occupy hundreds of different niches across ecosystems . some insects survive by eating the roots , stems , leaves , seeds , pollen , and nectar of specific plants . others , like wasps , make use of live insects by paralyzing the victims and laying their eggs inside so that when the hatchlings emerge , they can eat their way out and get nourishment . mosquitos and biting flies feed on blood , taking advantage of this unusual resource to ensure their survival .	what kinds of foods do insects eat ?	what kinds of foods do insects eat ?
where the mach cone meets the ground , it forms a hyperbola , leaving a trail known as the boom carpet as it travels forward . this makes it possible to determine the area affected by a sonic boom . what about figuring out how strong a sonic boom will be ? this involves solving the famous navier-stokes equations to find the variation of pressure in the air due to the supersonic aircraft flying through it .	when is a sonic boom generated ?	when is a sonic boom generated ?
they sting and bite and infest our food . we feel an `` ick factor '' associated with them and are disgusted by the prospect of cooking insects . almost 2,000 insect species are turned into food , forming a big part of everyday diets for two billion people around the world . countries in the tropics are the keenest consumers , because culturally , it 's acceptable .	which part of the world currently eats insects the most ?	which part of the world currently eats insects the most ?
it also creates the characteristic sound : `` hic . '' to date , there is no known function for hiccups . they do n't seem to provide any medical or physiological advantage .	the principal function of the diaphragm is :	the principal function of the diaphragm is :
it also creates the characteristic sound : `` hic . '' to date , there is no known function for hiccups . they do n't seem to provide any medical or physiological advantage .	one possible function for hiccups in mammals is to :	one possible function for hiccups in mammals is to :
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar once upon a time in the magical and very round land of pi , there lived six swashbuckling musketeers . there names were parentheses , exponents , multiplication , division , addition , and subtraction .	where did the six swashbuckling musketeers live ?	where did the six swashbuckling musketeers live ?
so back to the dark matter . if the lhc 's proton beams have enough energy to produce it , that 's probably an even rarer occurrence than the higgs boson . so it takes quadrillions of collisions combined with theoretical models to even start to look .	in 2012 , a higgs boson was produced in one out of ... .. proton-proton collisions at the lhc	in 2012 , a higgs boson was produced in one out of ... .. proton-proton collisions at the lhc
so back to the dark matter . if the lhc 's proton beams have enough energy to produce it , that 's probably an even rarer occurrence than the higgs boson . so it takes quadrillions of collisions combined with theoretical models to even start to look .	scientists at the lhc are analyzing the results of billions of proton-proton collisions . why is it not possible to identify the higgs boson by looking just at few proton-proton collision ?	scientists at the lhc are analyzing the results of billions of proton-proton collisions . why is it not possible to identify the higgs boson by looking just at few proton-proton collision ?
but if your results started to approach 100 % heads , you 'd suspect that something was wrong , not with your individual flips , but with the coin itself . of course , suspect identifications are n't as random as coin tosses , but they 're not as clear cut as telling apples from bananas , either . in fact , a 1994 study found that up to 48 % of witnesses tend to pick the wrong person out of a lineup , even when many are confident in their choice .	consider the same scenario , but that about 80 of your friends all agree on the number of apples , and about 20 come up with different numbers . how likely is that the 80 friends have got it right ?	consider the same scenario , but that about 80 of your friends all agree on the number of apples , and about 20 come up with different numbers . how likely is that the 80 friends have got it right ?
so helium is probably the most unreactive of the elements . it has a mass of 4 , so it weighs four times as much as a hydrogen atom , but hydrogen is an h2 molecule , whereas helium exists as isolated atoms , so that the a helium molecule weighs twice as much as hydrogen . see here , we have a helium filled balloon , and it 's extremely light , so i 'm not gon na let it go right now so i will lose it to the ceiling .	a helium atom weighs four times as much as a hydrogen atom ...	a helium atom weighs four times as much as a hydrogen atom ...
you 'll feel the metal , and those are your regular nerve cells . but you wo n't feel any pain . now , the harder you push against the needle , the closer you get to the nociceptor threshold .	explain why we feel pain . in your answer , consider what life would be like if we did not feel pain , and give examples of situations in which pain is helpful .	explain why we feel pain . in your answer , consider what life would be like if we did not feel pain , and give examples of situations in which pain is helpful .
answer those questions , and you have your story . good luck , future world-builder !	in building a world , an author of futuristic fiction would be most likely to focus on :	in building a world , an author of futuristic fiction would be most likely to focus on :
answer those questions , and you have your story . good luck , future world-builder !	which of the following is not an important aspect to consider in world building ?	which of the following is not an important aspect to consider in world building ?
these were the hallmarks of civilization in what , to their eyes , was a pretty barbaric world . an educated , civilized person was expected to be proficient in all aspects of creative thought inspired by the muses , and the common medium through which these disciplines were taught , studied , and disseminated was music . you see , it 's no coincidence that the word muse is very similar to the word music .	the ancient greeks believed that all aspects of creative thought were governed by the muses . which of the following was not a discipline overseen by a muse ?	the ancient greeks believed that all aspects of creative thought were governed by the muses . which of the following was not a discipline overseen by a muse ?
if it 's too low , the medicine wo n't do its job . if it 's too high , the drug and its metabolites can be toxic . that 's true of any drug . one of the hardest groups of patients to get the right dosage for are children .	taking medicines as tablets ( or any other oral form ) implies that some drug can be neutralized by liver enzymes before reaching the bloodstream and its target . injecting the drug directly into the bloodstream bypasses this process . do other routes also bypass the liver and deliver the drug directly into the bloodstream ?	taking medicines as tablets ( or any other oral form ) implies that some drug can be neutralized by liver enzymes before reaching the bloodstream and its target . injecting the drug directly into the bloodstream bypasses this process . do other routes also bypass the liver and deliver the drug directly into the bloodstream ?
for instance , even a few cumulus clouds in front of the sun can reduce the electricity production in solar towers to almost zero because of this dependence on direct rays . in solar panels , those clouds would decrease energy output as well , though not as much because solar panels can use all types of irradiance . however , all this depends on the clouds exact positioning . due to reflection , or a particular phenomeon called mie scattering , the sun 's rays can actually be focused forward by clouds to create a more than 50 % increase in the solar irradiance reaching a solar panel .	how many main types of clouds are there ?	how many main types of clouds are there ?
just like rubbing your hands together warms them up or rubbing two sticks together makes fire , the faster objects rub together , the more heat is generated . so , if we 're running at 25,000 miles per hour , the heat from friction would burn our faces off . even if we somehow withstood the heat , the sand and dirt in the air would still scrape us up with millions of tiny cuts all happening at the same time .	what does friction create ?	what does friction create ?
this presence of excessive fibrous connective tissue in an organ is known as fibrosis , and if that term sounds familiar , it 's because our skin is not the only organ vulnerable to scarring . cystic fibrosis is a genetic disorder that causes scarring of the pancreas , while pulmonary fibrosis is a scarring of the lungs , resulting in shortness of breath . scarring of the heart and the buildup of ecm following a heart attack can inhibit its beating , leading to further heart problems .	what is the medical term for scarring in the lungs resulting in shortness of breath ?	what is the medical term for scarring in the lungs resulting in shortness of breath ?
how do these beautiful , gelatinous creatures pack such a painful punch ? jellyfish are soft because they are 95 % water and are mostly made of a translucent gel-like substance called mesoglea . with such delicate bodies , they rely on thousands of venom-containing stinging cells called cnidocytes for protection and prey capture . even baby jellyfish , the size of a pencil eraser , have the ability to sting .	what is the jellyfish 's stinging cell called ?	what is the jellyfish 's stinging cell called ?
not only will your nose be closer to the odor source , but the warmth of your breath will make odors easier to smell . second , sniff like you mean it . smelling actually happens way up near the bridge of our noses in a postage stamp-sized square of tissue called the olfactory epithelium .	why should you give a good , long sniff to something you would like to smell ?	why should you give a good , long sniff to something you would like to smell ?
though the name suggested impossibility , modern scientific and political progress raised hopes of these dreams finally becoming reality . but time and time again , they instead turned into nightmares of war , famine , and oppression . and as artists began to question utopian thinking , the genre of dystopia , the not good place , was born .	what was disturbing about the future world of `` the time machine '' ?	what was disturbing about the future world of `` the time machine '' ?
so is the sample still there ? oh beautiful , here we see this wonderful sample of dysprosium . if you mix dysprosium with cadmium and sulphur it can be used in devices which produce infrared beams . now chemists use infrared beams quite a lot because when you irradiate a sample , a compound with infrared then certain absorbencies will occur which are specific to stretching or bending modes which the molecule will do .	which analytical technique does stephen explain uses the element dysprosium together with cadmium and sulfur ?	which analytical technique does stephen explain uses the element dysprosium together with cadmium and sulfur ?
so is the sample still there ? oh beautiful , here we see this wonderful sample of dysprosium . if you mix dysprosium with cadmium and sulphur it can be used in devices which produce infrared beams . now chemists use infrared beams quite a lot because when you irradiate a sample , a compound with infrared then certain absorbencies will occur which are specific to stretching or bending modes which the molecule will do .	of the 36 known isotopes of dysprosium , which is the most abundant in nature ?	of the 36 known isotopes of dysprosium , which is the most abundant in nature ?
martha stewart said to me , `` i 'm a real hard worker . i work and work and work all the time . '' media tycoon rupert murdoch said , `` it 's all hard work .	before seeing the video what did you think about work ? what do you think now ?	before seeing the video what did you think about work ? what do you think now ?
the point is , your brain receives the same signal , regardless of whether you see light that has the yellow frequency or light that is a mixture of the green and red frequencies . that 's why , for light , red plus green equals yellow . and , how come you ca n't detect colors when it 's dark ?	why is it weird that green and red light mix to form yellow light ?	why is it weird that green and red light mix to form yellow light ?
the point is , your brain receives the same signal , regardless of whether you see light that has the yellow frequency or light that is a mixture of the green and red frequencies . that 's why , for light , red plus green equals yellow . and , how come you ca n't detect colors when it 's dark ?	what would happen if you mixed blue light and red light ? what would happen if you mixed blue pigment and red pigment ?	what would happen if you mixed blue light and red light ? what would happen if you mixed blue pigment and red pigment ?
in fact , if you do n't continuously expose your muscles to some resistance , they will shrink , a process known as muscular atrophy . in contrast , exposing the muscle to a high-degree of tension , especially while the muscle is lengthening , also called an eccentric contraction , generates effective conditions for new growth . however , muscles rely on more than just activity to grow . without proper nutrition , hormones , and rest , your body would never be able to repair damaged muscle fibers . protein in our diet preserves muscle mass by providing the building blocks for new tissue in the form of amino acids . adequate protein intake , along with naturally occurring hormones , like insulin-like growth factor and testosterone , help shift the body into a state where tissue is repaired and grown .	the fda recommends adults get at least 50g or protein a day to replace tissue that is broken down during the day . how might someone who engages in regular physical activity need to change his or her diet to support increased activity and muscle growth ? what happens to muscle tissue if you workout without eating ?	the fda recommends adults get at least 50g or protein a day to replace tissue that is broken down during the day . how might someone who engages in regular physical activity need to change his or her diet to support increased activity and muscle growth ? what happens to muscle tissue if you workout without eating ?
these are sentences that can stand on their own , but when connected by semicolons , look and sound better because they 're related in some way . `` semicolons were once a great mystery to me . i had no idea where to put them . ''	semicolons should never be placed before :	semicolons should never be placed before :
so hopefully you can see now that skimping on sleep not only harms your long-term health , but actually makes it less likely that you 'll retain all that knowledge and practice from the previous night , all of which just goes to affirm the wisdom of the phrase , `` sleep on it . '' when you think about all the internal restructuring and forming of new connections that occurs while you slumber , you could even say that proper sleep will have you waking up every morning with a new and improved brain , ready to face the challenges ahead .	provide evidence to support the statement that `` we wake up each morning with a new brain . ''	provide evidence to support the statement that `` we wake up each morning with a new brain . ''
first , let 's start with an important term : sample . a sample is the group of people that respond to questions during a public opinion poll . a poll 's quality rests largely on its sample , and a sample can be bad in a few key ways .	what is the word for the group of people that respond to questions during a public opinion poll ?	what is the word for the group of people that respond to questions during a public opinion poll ?
this was the beginning . our protests soon became a daily occurrence and an international phenomenon , and as a member of westboro baptist church , i became a fixture on picket lines across the country . the end of my antigay picketing career and life as i knew it , came 20 years later , triggered in part by strangers on twitter who showed me the power of engaging the other .	briefly describe the agenda of the westboro baptist church .	briefly describe the agenda of the westboro baptist church .
when findings are significant , they are frequently double-checked by other researchers , either by reanalyzing the data or by redoing the entire experiment . for example , it took repeated investigation of the cern data before the timing error was tracked down . unfortunately , there are currently neither the resources nor professional incentives to double check the more than 1 million scientific papers published annually .	what unexpected event did cern researchers ultimately track down due to an experimental error ?	what unexpected event did cern researchers ultimately track down due to an experimental error ?
this whale song was first noted by a technician on december 7th , 1992 in the northeast pacific ocean . it sounded like a blue whale , but blue whale cries usually are somewhere between 15 and 20 hertz in pitch . so , blue whales in the pacific typically sound like this : [ blue whale cry playing ] but this whale song , played at the same speed , sounded like this : [ 52 hertz song playing ] this high-pitch noise seemed to be unique to one animal -- a whale that became known as 52 blue .	blue whale calls are normally somewhere between ________ hertz in pitch .	blue whale calls are normally somewhere between ________ hertz in pitch .
you are the cargo director on the maiden voyage of the s.s . buoyant , and you 've agreed to transport several tanks containing the last specimens of a critically endangered fish species to their new aquarium .	which of the following is not correct ?	which of the following is not correct ?
so , one last thing , then , is a new thing that 's been going on . string theory may turn out to be useful in other areas of physics . there are new kinds of experiments that start out , say , with our friend the electron , and actually show that in certain circumstances , the electrons interact in a way that give you completely new , weird kinds of behavior .	string theory :	string theory :
this is what enables us to understand metaphors even though they make no logical sense , such as the comparison of snow to a white blanket , based on the shared sensations of softness and lightness . ideasthesia may even be crucial to art , which relies on a synthesis of the conceptual and the emotional . in great art , idea and aesthesia enhance each other , whether it 's song lyrics combining perfectly with a melody , the thematic content of a painting heightened by its use of colors and brushstrokes , or the well constructed plot of a novel conveyed through perfectly crafted sentences .	in your own appreciation of art , can you find examples in which the emotional experiences that the artwork evoked were combined with your understanding of the meaning of the work ?	in your own appreciation of art , can you find examples in which the emotional experiences that the artwork evoked were combined with your understanding of the meaning of the work ?
cell membranes are also the site of an ongoing war between us and all the things that want to infect us . in fact , some of the most toxic substances we know of are membrane-breaching proteins made by infectious bacteria . these pore-forming toxins poke giant holes in our cell membranes , causing a cell 's contents to leak out . scientists are working on developing ways to defend against them , like using a nano-sponge that saves our cells by soaking up the membrane-damaging toxins .	a ________ protein is fully on one side or the other of the cell membrane .	a ________ protein is fully on one side or the other of the cell membrane .
cell membranes are also the site of an ongoing war between us and all the things that want to infect us . in fact , some of the most toxic substances we know of are membrane-breaching proteins made by infectious bacteria . these pore-forming toxins poke giant holes in our cell membranes , causing a cell 's contents to leak out . scientists are working on developing ways to defend against them , like using a nano-sponge that saves our cells by soaking up the membrane-damaging toxins .	what are some of the cellular functions that a cell membrane participates in ?	what are some of the cellular functions that a cell membrane participates in ?
but it 's clear that today , our tools and methods have become so effective that humans are no longer reacting to the environment , but are actively changing it . the extinction of species is a normal occurrence in the background of ecosystems . but studies suggest that rates of extinction today for many organisms are hundreds to thousands of times higher than the normal background .	species become vulnerable to extinction when :	species become vulnerable to extinction when :
we happen to know of at least one such process that has lead to original , valuable , and even beautiful outcomes : the process of evolution . and evolutionary algorithms , or genetic algorithms that mimic biological evolution , are one promising approach to making machines generate original and valuable artistic outcomes . so how can evolution make a machine musically creative ?	how do genetic algorithms work ?	how do genetic algorithms work ?
we happen to know of at least one such process that has lead to original , valuable , and even beautiful outcomes : the process of evolution . and evolutionary algorithms , or genetic algorithms that mimic biological evolution , are one promising approach to making machines generate original and valuable artistic outcomes . so how can evolution make a machine musically creative ?	researchers have used genetic algorithms in an effort to build creative robots since genetic algorithms :	researchers have used genetic algorithms in an effort to build creative robots since genetic algorithms :
henri poincaré , one of the father 's of non-euclidean geometry , believed that the existence of non-euclidean geometry , dealing with the non-flat surfaces of hyperbolic and elliptical curvatures , proved that euclidean geometry , the long standing geometry of flat surfaces , was not a universal truth , but rather one outcome of using one particular set of game rules . but in 1960 , nobel physics laureate eugene wigner coined the phrase , `` the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics , '' pushing strongly for the idea that mathematics is real and discovered by people . wigner pointed out that many purely mathematical theories developed in a vacuum , often with no view towards describing any physical phenomena , have proven decades or even centuries later , to be the framework necessary to explain how the universe has been working all along .	what famous phrase did eugene wigner coin regarding mathematics ?	what famous phrase did eugene wigner coin regarding mathematics ?
life is found everywhere , from black smoke of hydrothermal vents in the dark depths of earth 's oceans , to bubbling , hot , acidic springs on the flanks of volcanoes , to high up in the atmosphere . organisms that live in these challenging environments are called extremophiles , and they can survive at extremes of temperature , pressure , and radiation , as well as salinity , acidity , and limited availability of sunlight , water , or oxygen . what is most remarkable about these extremophiles is that they are found thriving in environments that mimic those on alien worlds .	extremophiles can survive at extremes of temperature , pressure , salinity , acidity , water and oxygen . what are some of the environments on the earth where we could find extremophiles ?	extremophiles can survive at extremes of temperature , pressure , salinity , acidity , water and oxygen . what are some of the environments on the earth where we could find extremophiles ?
the speed is measured in seconds and fractions of seconds . for shooting sports or anything with a lot of movement , we 'll need faster speeds . for taking awesome night landscapes , longer exposures will be better , but we 'll need a tripod to steady the shot and prevent motion blur .	for shooting sport we should use	for shooting sport we should use
so what does it really mean to know a language ? language ability is typically measured in two active parts , speaking and writing , and two passive parts , listening and reading . while a balanced bilingual has near equal abilities across the board in two languages , most bilinguals around the world know and use their languages in varying proportions .	language ability is typically measured in what parts ?	language ability is typically measured in what parts ?
when it comes to most things , the more of it you acquire , the less useful or enjoyable every additional bit becomes . this is the law of diminishing marginal utility . you might gladly buy two or three helpings of your favorite food , but the fourth would make you nauseated , and the hundredth would spoil before you could even get to it .	you purchased three bars of chocolate . the utility of purchasing the first bar of chocolate is 10 units . the utility of purchasing second bar of chocolate is 8 units . the utility of the third bar of chocolate is 6 units . what is the total value or total utility of purchasing three bars of chocolate ?	you purchased three bars of chocolate . the utility of purchasing the first bar of chocolate is 10 units . the utility of purchasing second bar of chocolate is 8 units . the utility of the third bar of chocolate is 6 units . what is the total value or total utility of purchasing three bars of chocolate ?
when it comes to most things , the more of it you acquire , the less useful or enjoyable every additional bit becomes . this is the law of diminishing marginal utility . you might gladly buy two or three helpings of your favorite food , but the fourth would make you nauseated , and the hundredth would spoil before you could even get to it .	using the same scenario as above , what is the total utility of purchasing two bars of chocolate ?	using the same scenario as above , what is the total utility of purchasing two bars of chocolate ?
when it comes to most things , the more of it you acquire , the less useful or enjoyable every additional bit becomes . this is the law of diminishing marginal utility . you might gladly buy two or three helpings of your favorite food , but the fourth would make you nauseated , and the hundredth would spoil before you could even get to it .	using the same scenario as above , what is the marginal utility of purchasing the second bar of chocolate ?	using the same scenario as above , what is the marginal utility of purchasing the second bar of chocolate ?
when it comes to most things , the more of it you acquire , the less useful or enjoyable every additional bit becomes . this is the law of diminishing marginal utility . you might gladly buy two or three helpings of your favorite food , but the fourth would make you nauseated , and the hundredth would spoil before you could even get to it .	is there any situation where the law of diminishing marginal utility may not hold true ? discuss .	is there any situation where the law of diminishing marginal utility may not hold true ? discuss .
the number of other atoms one atom can bond with depends on how its electrons are arranged . so , how are electrons arranged ? every atom of a pure , unbonded element is electrically neutral because it contains the same number of protons in the nucleus as it does electrons around the nucleus .	choose a molecule from the video , and write a complete and correct lewis structure for it . what information ( about protons , neutrons , and electrons ) gets transferred from the full view we show in the video to the lewis structure ? why do you think lewis structures are a useful tool for chemists ?	choose a molecule from the video , and write a complete and correct lewis structure for it . what information ( about protons , neutrons , and electrons ) gets transferred from the full view we show in the video to the lewis structure ? why do you think lewis structures are a useful tool for chemists ?
so you can see on the front of this instrument , there is a dome shaped device , that dome , is a special vessel which is made so that we could control the atmosphere inside and it is fabricated from beryllium metal . i talk about in my lectures , i explain that beryllium chloride the molecule that has three atoms , two chlorine atoms and one beryllium atom , has the three atoms arranged in the row , so it is a straight molecule so called linear molecule . i have never seen beryllium chloride . chemists use it on x-ray defractometers because actually it is so lightweight it is actually got atomic number 4 .	how many electrons does a beryllium atom have in its outer shell ?	how many electrons does a beryllium atom have in its outer shell ?
he decided that quantum mechanics must be incomplete , a mere approximation of a deeper reality in which both particles have predetermined states that are hidden from us . supporters of orthodox quantum theory lead by niels bohr maintained that quantum states really are fundamentally indeterminate , and entanglement allows the state of one particle to depend on that of its distant partner . for 30 years , physics remained at an impasse , until john bell figured out that the key to testing the epr argument was to look at cases involving different measurements on the two particles .	quantum entanglement might be the basis of future technology that enables :	quantum entanglement might be the basis of future technology that enables :
mountain everest lies at the heart of this action , on the edge of the indian-eurasian collision zone . but mountains are shaped by forces other than uplift . as the land is pushed up , air masses are forced to rise as well .	what forces shape mountains ?	what forces shape mountains ?
these natural hormones , which control pain and pleasure responses in the cental nervous system , can lead to feelings of euphoria , or , what 's often called , a runner 's high . increased endorphins and consistent physical activity in general can sharpen your focus and improve your mood and memory . so does that mean we get just as much benefit going to the gym five days a week as we would joining a team and competing ?	playing sports , or exercise in general , increases endorphins . what benefits do increased endorphins offer ?	playing sports , or exercise in general , increases endorphins . what benefits do increased endorphins offer ?
dictatorship was what cuba had before the revolution . fulgencio batista was a tyrant who came to power in a military coup . he turned havana into a luxury playground for foreigners while keeping cubans mired in poverty and killing thousands in police crackdowns .	how did batista come to power ?	how did batista come to power ?
giving the modifier something to modify will solve the problem . then there 's another group called the squinting modifiers because they 're stuck between two things and could feasibly refer to either . often , these modifiers are adverbs , like the one in this sentence : `` robbers who steal chocolate bunnies rapidly attract the outrage of onlookers . ''	briefly explain the difference between squinting and dangling modifiers .	briefly explain the difference between squinting and dangling modifiers .
if we trap all those alpha particles together , we get helium gas . alpha is a helium nucleus . like the beta particle , you would not have expected a heavier nucleus to throw out helium .	alpha radiation :	alpha radiation :
but if the radioactive gas pressure is too high , containment fails and the gasses escape into the air , spreading as far and wide as the wind blows . the radioactive fission products in these vapors eventually decay into stable elements . while some decay in a few seconds , others take hundreds of thousands of years .	plutonium is a radioactive material , exposure to which is hazardous to human health , and is one of the few materials that can be used to make a nuclear weapon . the time it takes for half of any initial quantity of plutonium to decay into stable non-radioactive products is roughly :	plutonium is a radioactive material , exposure to which is hazardous to human health , and is one of the few materials that can be used to make a nuclear weapon . the time it takes for half of any initial quantity of plutonium to decay into stable non-radioactive products is roughly :
physical facts ca n't completely explain mental states like this . philosophers interested in artificial intelligence have used the knowledge argument to theorize that recreating a physical state wo n't necessarily recreate a corresponding mental state . in other words , building a computer which mimicked the function of every single neuron of the human brain wo n't necessarily create a conscious computerized brain .	how is the knowledge argument related to the potential limitations of artificial intelligence ?	how is the knowledge argument related to the potential limitations of artificial intelligence ?
in three dimensions , we can make surfaces of constant width , like the reuleaux tetrahedron , formed by taking a tetrahedron , expanding a sphere from each vertex until it touches the opposite vertices , and throwing everything away except the region where they overlap . surfaces of constant width maintain a constant distance between two parallel planes . so you could throw a bunch of reuleaux tetrahedra on the floor , and slide a board across them as smoothly as if they were marbles . now back to manhole covers .	you saw that a collection of reuleaux tetrahedra could be used to slide on ; since they have the same width , the board stays level . name two other three-dimensional solids on which a sliding board would stay level .	you saw that a collection of reuleaux tetrahedra could be used to slide on ; since they have the same width , the board stays level . name two other three-dimensional solids on which a sliding board would stay level .
in some drought-stricken countries , the ocean is the only available water source . but of course , humans ca n't drink salt water . one way to get around this problem is to remove salt from sea water with reverse osmosis , a process that separates water 's ingredients by size . a membrane with pores bigger than water particles , but smaller than salt particles , only lets fresh water pass through , transforming what was once undrinkable into a life saver .	in order to remove salt from seawater , one can pass it through a filter . how big/small should the pores in this filter be ? why can ’ t you remove salt from seawater with the same colander used to remove water from a cooked food ?	in order to remove salt from seawater , one can pass it through a filter . how big/small should the pores in this filter be ? why can ’ t you remove salt from seawater with the same colander used to remove water from a cooked food ?
to compensate and keep up the chain reaction , the concentration of u-235 is enriched to four to seven times its natural abundance . today , enrichment is often done by passing a gaseous uranium compound through centrifuges to separate lighter u-235 from heavier u-238 . but the same process can be continued to highly enrich u-235 up to 130 times its natural abundance and create an explosive chain reaction in a bomb .	the concentration of the lighter isotope of uranium , uranium-235 , is very low in nature relative to the abundance of the heavier uranium-238 . in most modern reactors , the abundance of uranium-235 in the fuel needs to be enriched by a factor of :	the concentration of the lighter isotope of uranium , uranium-235 , is very low in nature relative to the abundance of the heavier uranium-238 . in most modern reactors , the abundance of uranium-235 in the fuel needs to be enriched by a factor of :
but why do people get asthma and how can this disease be deadly ? asthma affects the respiratory system , particularly the smaller airways , such as the bronchi and bronchioles . these airways have an inner lining called the mucosa that 's surrounded by a layer of smooth muscle .	asthma primarily affects the ___ and ___ of the respiratory system .	asthma primarily affects the ___ and ___ of the respiratory system .
but why ? when psychologists dunning and kruger first described the effect in 1999 , they argued that people lacking knowledge and skill in particular areas suffer a double curse . first , they make mistakes and reach poor decisions .	are there areas where people are more reliably successful in identifying their shortcomings ? what distinguishes these areas from areas where people can ’ t recognize their shortcomings ?	are there areas where people are more reliably successful in identifying their shortcomings ? what distinguishes these areas from areas where people can ’ t recognize their shortcomings ?
this question of mind and body becomes particularly interesting at a time when we 're considering future technologies , such as neural prosthetics and wearable robots that could become extended parts of our bodies . or the slightly more radical idea of mind uploading , which dangles the possibility of immortal life without a body by transferring a human consciousness into a computer . if the body is deeply mapped in the brain , then by extending our sense of self to new wearable devices , our brains may eventually adapt to a restructured version with new sensory representations .	mind-uploading is the idea of transferring human consciousness into a computer by scanning and simulating brain activities . many believe that the simulated mind could exist and operate within a virtual reality . what are the challenges in this process from the mind-body interaction point of view ?	mind-uploading is the idea of transferring human consciousness into a computer by scanning and simulating brain activities . many believe that the simulated mind could exist and operate within a virtual reality . what are the challenges in this process from the mind-body interaction point of view ?
in fact , scientists often describe the arctic as the canary in the coal mine when it comes to predicting the impact of climate change . one major type of climate feedback involves reflectivity . white surfaces , like snow and ice , are very effective at reflecting the sun 's energy back into space , while darker land and water surfaces absorb much more incoming sunlight . when the arctic warms just a little , some of the snow and ice melts , exposing the ground and ocean underneath .	which of the following statements are true ? 1. reflectivity is higher in dark surfaces , absorption is higher in light surfaces . 2. reflectivity is higher in light surfaces , absorption is higher in dark surfaces . 3. as arctic ice melts , reflectivity decreases and absorption increases . 4. as arctic ice melts , reflectivity increases and absorption decreases .	which of the following statements are true ? 1. reflectivity is higher in dark surfaces , absorption is higher in light surfaces . 2. reflectivity is higher in light surfaces , absorption is higher in dark surfaces . 3. as arctic ice melts , reflectivity decreases and absorption increases . 4. as arctic ice melts , reflectivity increases and absorption decreases .
scholars believe that wigca shares a root with words like wiggle and wag , and that it most likely referred to a creature that moves quickly . unfortunately for this innocent little insect , even its scientific name gives it a bad rap . because of the large , pencil-like cerci on the tail and of its abdomen , scientists associate earwigs with a pair of scissors , calling them < i > forficula auricularia < i > , literally little scissors of the ear .	what 's the literal translation for the scientific name of an earwig ?	what 's the literal translation for the scientific name of an earwig ?
scholars believe that wigca shares a root with words like wiggle and wag , and that it most likely referred to a creature that moves quickly . unfortunately for this innocent little insect , even its scientific name gives it a bad rap . because of the large , pencil-like cerci on the tail and of its abdomen , scientists associate earwigs with a pair of scissors , calling them < i > forficula auricularia < i > , literally little scissors of the ear .	what can two-part scientific names tell us about an animal and its relationship with other animals ?	what can two-part scientific names tell us about an animal and its relationship with other animals ?
really what that says is that chlorine wants another electron to get that noble gas configuration and it will move heaven and earth to get that electron ! so during the first world war it was used as a chemical weapon . the gas could spread across the battlefields and when it came to the trenches , which were holes in the ground , it would fall into the trenches and fill them up . you can see the yellow colour against the white background on the paper , so now we ’ re starting to fill that flask with chlorine ; it ’ s quite dense , so it will stick to the bottom of the flask it ’ s not like a light gas like hydrogen or helium , it won ’ t come upwards .	during the world war 1 , chlorine was used as a chemical weapon . its poisonous gas could spread across the battlefields . the professor explained that when chlorine spread to the trenches , it would fall into them and fill them up . what chemical property of chlorine is responsible for this process ?	during the world war 1 , chlorine was used as a chemical weapon . its poisonous gas could spread across the battlefields . the professor explained that when chlorine spread to the trenches , it would fall into them and fill them up . what chemical property of chlorine is responsible for this process ?
mysteries of vernacular : gorgeous , beautiful or very attractive . the source of the word gorgeous can be found in the latin word , gurges , used by the romans to describe a whirling , swirling whirlpool . thanks to the aquatic phenomenon 's cylindrical shape and gurgling form , gurges also came to mean throat . by the time gurges reached england in the 14th century , it had been altered to gorge .	why would the physiology of the throat be associated with a whirlpool ?	why would the physiology of the throat be associated with a whirlpool ?
wenes , a form of the original root , was tailored to the mythology of the time , and applied to the roman goddess of love , venus , known to the greeks as aphrodite and to the egyptians as hathor . from this milieu of amore , the word wenesom emerged , meaning love potion . over time , wenesom became venenum , a word that specifically described potions or medicines that evoked intense physical reactions from the patient . the definition of venenum eventually narrowed to refer solely to poisonous concoctions , a shift that puts us within striking distance of the word under investigation .	what is the relationship between venus and love potions ?	what is the relationship between venus and love potions ?
the crowd has hushed . sophocles 's actors and chorus are taking the stage for the play , `` oedipus rex . '' as usual , the chorus is set up in the orchestra .	actors played multiple parts in each play .	actors played multiple parts in each play .
the crowd has hushed . sophocles 's actors and chorus are taking the stage for the play , `` oedipus rex . '' as usual , the chorus is set up in the orchestra .	thespis , aeschylus and sophocles were some of the key players innovating theater in their time . their innovations changed the way stories were told . what was gained theatrically by shrinking the role of the chorus and increasing the number of actors on stage ?	thespis , aeschylus and sophocles were some of the key players innovating theater in their time . their innovations changed the way stories were told . what was gained theatrically by shrinking the role of the chorus and increasing the number of actors on stage ?
and the answer to the ultimate question of life , the universe , and everything is most certainly 42 . just like real life , fictional worlds operate consistently within a spectrum of physical and societal rules . that 's what makes these intricate worlds believable , comprehensible , and worth exploring .	which of the following is true of fictional worlds ?	which of the following is true of fictional worlds ?
as with many unsolved mysteries of the ancient world , we may never know for sure , barring the invention of a time machine , that is . but while the answers remain elusive , these images are our earliest proof of human communication , testifying to the human capacity for creativity thousands of years before writing . they are a distinct visual language that imagines the world outside the self , just like modern art forms , from graffiti and painting to animated virtual-reality caves .	the ingredients for the earliest paints included :	the ingredients for the earliest paints included :
the slowest method is to take a drug orally because it must be absorbed by our digestive system before it takes effect . inhaling a drug gets it into the bloodstream faster . and injecting a drug intravenously works quickly too because it pumps the chemicals directly into the blood .	which of the following is the quickest way for a drug to reach the bloodstream ?	which of the following is the quickest way for a drug to reach the bloodstream ?
the slowest method is to take a drug orally because it must be absorbed by our digestive system before it takes effect . inhaling a drug gets it into the bloodstream faster . and injecting a drug intravenously works quickly too because it pumps the chemicals directly into the blood .	which of the following is the slowest way for a drug to reach the bloodstream ?	which of the following is the slowest way for a drug to reach the bloodstream ?
bees use the moves , angle , duration , and intensity of their waggle dance to describe the location and richness of a food source . that source is outside the hive , so they exhibit the property of displacement . they share that language trait with prairie dogs , which live in towns of thousands , and are hunted by coyotes , hawks , badgers , snakes , and humans .	displacement is a quality found in the communication of both honeybees and in humans . displacement means :	displacement is a quality found in the communication of both honeybees and in humans . displacement means :
well , you have ... kinda . in cultivated bananas the seeds have pretty much stopped existing . if you look closely you can see tiny black specks .	3. the seeds in the bananas we eat today are different from `` normal `` seeds because they are_______ .	3. the seeds in the bananas we eat today are different from `` normal `` seeds because they are_______ .
meanwhile in oz , claimed littlefield , dorothy is a typical american girl whose hard life in kansas is literally turned upside down by powerful forces outside her control . the munchkins are the common people oppressed by the witch of the east , banks and monopolies . the scarecrow is the farmer , considered naive but actually quite resourceful , the tin woodman is the industrial worker dehumanized by factory labor , and the cowardly lion is william jennings bryan who could be an influential figure if only he were brave enough to adopt the populist 's radical program .	the wicked witch of the east , according to this interpretation , stood for :	the wicked witch of the east , according to this interpretation , stood for :
but even before this period , european artists , such as claude monet , had become interested in and inspired by japanese art , such as woodblock prints , as well as live performance . after 1868 , others such as vincent van gogh and composer claude debussy began to incorporate kabuki influences in their work , while kabuki itself underwent much change and experimentation to adapt to the new modern era . like other traditional art forms , kabuki suffered in popularity in the wake of world war ii .	when japan re-opened it ’ s borders to the rest of the world , many artists , such as claude monet and vincent van gogh , as well as composer ________ , began to use kabuki styles to influence their work .	when japan re-opened it ’ s borders to the rest of the world , many artists , such as claude monet and vincent van gogh , as well as composer ________ , began to use kabuki styles to influence their work .
the red blood cells in the vessels within your lungs can only pick up oxygen molecules that are very close to them . if our lungs were shaped like balloons , air that was not in direct contact with the balloon 's inner surface could n't diffuse through . luckily , our lungs ' architecture ensures that very little oxygen is wasted . their interior is divided into hundreds of millions of miniature balloon-like projections called alveoli that dramatically increase the contact area to somewhere around 100 square meters . the alveolar walls are made of extremely thin flat cells that are surrounded by capillaries .	to ensure sufficient oxygen diffusion , the lungs contain hundreds of millions of miniature balloon-like projections . this increases the lungs ’ surface area to approximately how many square meters ?	to ensure sufficient oxygen diffusion , the lungs contain hundreds of millions of miniature balloon-like projections . this increases the lungs ’ surface area to approximately how many square meters ?
think of the center of the onion as a word 's base element , its essential kernel of meaning . a free-base element , like o-n-e , or t-w-o , can stand on its own as a word , like one , or two . a bound base , like the r-u-p-t of `` erupt '' or `` rupture '' needs another element in order to surface in a word .	some base elements are free , like and , and can stand on their own as a word . bound bases , like ,	some base elements are free , like and , and can stand on their own as a word . bound bases , like ,
we 're just getting started up here on land . besides , the seas are rising . just give us some time .	at the end of the film , the snail narrator mentions the seas are rising . discuss the reasons behind and impact of current sea level rise .	at the end of the film , the snail narrator mentions the seas are rising . discuss the reasons behind and impact of current sea level rise .
well , every single drug comes with risks . big ad campaigns are usually for newer drugs , for which not all the risks may be known yet . in the case of the painkiller vioxx , a massive ad campaign led millions of people with arthritis to switch to vioxx instead of sticking with older drugs like ibuprofen .	big ad campaigns are usually for newer pharmaceuticals , which can mean what ?	big ad campaigns are usually for newer pharmaceuticals , which can mean what ?
this is why the second graph , which show the average temperature variation each year , is far more significant . when they 're used well , graphs can help us intuitively grasp complex data . but as visual software has enabled more usage of graphs throughout all media , it 's also made them easier to use in a careless or dishonest way .	why are graphs commonly used to present claims ?	why are graphs commonly used to present claims ?
did he murder guests , or disrupt a sacred ritual ? no , hippasus 's transgression was a mathematical proof : the discovery of irrational numbers . hippasus belonged to a group called the pythagorean mathematicians who had a religious reverence for numbers .	what are irrational numbers ?	what are irrational numbers ?
for example , the manu-o-ku had a known flight range of 190 kilometers , and could be followed back to shore . so how do we know all of this ? partially through evidence in petroglyphs , written observations of european explorers , and polynesian oral traditions .	how do we know that these ancient methods of wayfinding worked ?	how do we know that these ancient methods of wayfinding worked ?
these peppers measure between 1.5 and 2 million scoville heat units , which is about half the units found in pepper spray . so , why would anyone want to eat something that causes such high levels of pain ? nobody really knows when or why humans started eating hot peppers .	would you eat the world ’ s hottest pepper ? why or why not ?	would you eat the world ’ s hottest pepper ? why or why not ?
or humans could be genetically engineered to produce more of these signals in the absence of gravity . radiation exposure and microgravity are only two of the many challenges we will encounter in the hostile conditions of space . but if we 're ethically prepared to use them , gene editing and microbial engineering are two flexible tools that could be adapted to many scenarios .	what challenges do astronauts encounter in space ?	what challenges do astronauts encounter in space ?
even though today 's computers have far more memory than that , few have succeeded , and those that have done well focused more on finding clever ways to fool judges than using overwhelming computing power . though it was never subjected to a real test , the first program with some claim to success was called eliza . with only a fairly short and simple script , it managed to mislead many people by mimicking a psychologist , encouraging them to talk more and reflecting their own questions back at them .	what was the name of the first program claimed to have passed the turing test ?	what was the name of the first program claimed to have passed the turing test ?
even though today 's computers have far more memory than that , few have succeeded , and those that have done well focused more on finding clever ways to fool judges than using overwhelming computing power . though it was never subjected to a real test , the first program with some claim to success was called eliza . with only a fairly short and simple script , it managed to mislead many people by mimicking a psychologist , encouraging them to talk more and reflecting their own questions back at them .	what potential problems with the test did the success of eliza and parry reveal ?	what potential problems with the test did the success of eliza and parry reveal ?
that 's why these methods require a prescription from a doctor . the choice of contraceptive method is a personal one , and what works best for you now may change later . scientists also continue to research new methods , such as a male pill that would prevent sperm production .	once a person chooses a type of contraceptive :	once a person chooses a type of contraceptive :
that 's why these methods require a prescription from a doctor . the choice of contraceptive method is a personal one , and what works best for you now may change later . scientists also continue to research new methods , such as a male pill that would prevent sperm production .	what are some of the factors that influence the choice of a particular contraceptive ?	what are some of the factors that influence the choice of a particular contraceptive ?
that 's a baby whale and it 's already the size of a bus ! when you look at whales , start with the top of their head because their nose is on the top of their head , kind of like a built-in snorkel . they breathe through that because they 're mammals and mammals breathe air .	the whale ’ s nose is located on the top of the head and consists of :	the whale ’ s nose is located on the top of the head and consists of :
a group of conspirators calling themselves the liberators began to secretly discuss plans for assassination . leading them were the senator gaius cassius longinus and his friend and brother-in-law , brutus . joining the conspiracy was not an easy choice for brutus .	what was the name of brutus ' main co-conspirator and brother-in-law ?	what was the name of brutus ' main co-conspirator and brother-in-law ?
in the metric system , work and energy are measured in joules . as an example , let 's take a beautiful , old , mechanical grandfather clock . we transfer energy into the clock when we turn the crank to raise the heavy metal cylinders inside the clock .	when we turn the key on the back of an old grandfather clock , we are doing positive work . what 's another way to say this ?	when we turn the key on the back of an old grandfather clock , we are doing positive work . what 's another way to say this ?
littering , water shortages , deforestation , traffic jams , even the purchase of bottled water . but human civilization has proven it 's capable of doing something remarkable . we form social contracts , we make communal agreements , we elect governments , and we pass laws .	describe something you could do to help solve this problem ( from the question above ) .	describe something you could do to help solve this problem ( from the question above ) .
we may be able to find out thanks to the work of the three scientists who won the nobel prize in physics in 2016 . david thouless , duncan haldane , and michael kosterlitz won the award for discovering that even microscopic matter at the smallest scale can exhibit macroscopic properties and phases that are topological . but what does that mean ?	david j. thouless , f. duncan m. haldane , and j. michael kosterlitz were awarded the nobel prize in ____ 2016 “ for theoretical discoveries of topological phase transitions and topological phases of matter . ”	david j. thouless , f. duncan m. haldane , and j. michael kosterlitz were awarded the nobel prize in ____ 2016 “ for theoretical discoveries of topological phase transitions and topological phases of matter . ”
their gravity isn ’ t strong enough to keep them together , so they dissolve into their components . in the end , space would expand faster than the speed of light . atoms would now be affected , and they would just disband .	in the big rip scenario at what speed would space expand ?	in the big rip scenario at what speed would space expand ?
it quickly became popular throughout europe , both as a cure for internal ailments and as a decorative ornament and was renamed jade by the french , a word that was borrowed by the english and remains in use to this day . in the 19th century , french mineralogists discovered that jade was being used to describe two distinct minerals : jadeite , which takes its name from jade , and the more common nephrite , the root of which is the greek word nephros , meaning kidney . in addition to describing these two minerals , jade also has an english homonym .	how do mineralogists determine the difference between jadeite and nephrite ?	how do mineralogists determine the difference between jadeite and nephrite ?
and behind these problems lie a series of unique engineering challenges . nuclear power relies on the fission of uranium nuclei and a controlled chain reaction that reproduces this splitting in many more nuclei . the atomic nucleus is densely packed with protons and neutrons bound by a powerful nuclear force .	the series of events in which neutrons from split uranium nuclei lead to the splitting of more uranium nuclei is called a :	the series of events in which neutrons from split uranium nuclei lead to the splitting of more uranium nuclei is called a :
that 's why mucus is the body 's first line of defense against foreign objects , like bacteria and dust . it 's continuously produced to clear them from the respiratory tract , like a slimy conveyor belt . this keeps bacteria from getting a solid purchase on delicate lung tissue , or making it to the blood stream , where they could cause a major infection .	why do you think the body uses a highly hydrated gel rather than a mechanically robust barrier ( such as skin , for example ) to coat the eyes , the respiratory tract and the gastrointestinal tract ?	why do you think the body uses a highly hydrated gel rather than a mechanically robust barrier ( such as skin , for example ) to coat the eyes , the respiratory tract and the gastrointestinal tract ?
let 's get started with the home page . on the home page , you 'll find original ted-ed videos , each is a lesson recorded by an actual educator that 's visualized by a professional animator . you can nominate educators and animators in the `` get involved '' section of the site .	how do you nominate an educator or animator ?	how do you nominate an educator or animator ?
finally , the pemdas musketeers had whittled puff down to his last fearsome roar . but , having vanquished puff the magic digit dragon , all the empire 's numbers sprang again from this tiny little number one , and they all lived happily ever after . except for the emperor number , which they threw into the mouth of an ancient nesting creature in the desert .	what were all the numbers so afraid of ?	what were all the numbers so afraid of ?
essentially the same way our own brains interpret emotions , by learning how to spot them . american psychologist paul ekman identified certain universal emotions whose visual cues are understood the same way across cultures . for example , an image of a smile signals joy to modern urban dwellers and aboriginal tribesmen alike .	what was the main point of paul ekman ’ s theory of universal emotions ?	what was the main point of paul ekman ’ s theory of universal emotions ?
then , the kitchen timer dings . your cookie is ready . what happened inside that oven ?	how would adding or removing ingredients change your final cookie ?	how would adding or removing ingredients change your final cookie ?
then , the kitchen timer dings . your cookie is ready . what happened inside that oven ?	at what temperature would you take the pan out of the oven to create your ideal cookie ? what would that cookie look and taste like ?	at what temperature would you take the pan out of the oven to create your ideal cookie ? what would that cookie look and taste like ?
electrons , protons , oxygen , and phosphate groups are the main chemical currencies , and they 're kept in small molecular wallets or larger tote bags to keep them safe . this is biochemistry , the study of how every part of the factory interacts to keep your life running smoothly in the face of extreme challenges . maybe there 's too much fuel ; your body will store the excess as glycogen or fat .	what is the distinguishing characteristic of life ? is it consciousness ? is it growth ? is it fertility ( the ability to reproduce ) ? try and find examples of living things that are not conscious , or of inanimate objects that grow , or animals that are born sterile ( believe it or not , there are relatively common examples of all three ! ) . another definition of life is “ the ability to temporarily fight off the tendency towards increasing entropy. ” find the physicist closest to you and ask them what they think of that definition ( you ’ ll also probably want them to explain entropy ) . how would you define life ?	what is the distinguishing characteristic of life ? is it consciousness ? is it growth ? is it fertility ( the ability to reproduce ) ? try and find examples of living things that are not conscious , or of inanimate objects that grow , or animals that are born sterile ( believe it or not , there are relatively common examples of all three ! ) . another definition of life is “ the ability to temporarily fight off the tendency towards increasing entropy. ” find the physicist closest to you and ask them what they think of that definition ( you ’ ll also probably want them to explain entropy ) . how would you define life ?
all of this salt makes brine pools lethal to larger animals . but colonies of halophilic -- or salt-loving -- microorganisms can flourish there , usually in much higher concentrations than the nearby normal seawater . some pools are even lined with mussels that have symbiotic bacteria in their gills , which use the methane in the brine to make energy for the mussels .	what does halophilic mean ?	what does halophilic mean ?
but , in mythological ancient greece , the line that separated god from man was absolute and the punishment for mortals who attempted to cross it was severe . such was the case for icarus and daedalus . years before icarus was born , his father daedalus was highly regarded as a genius inventor , craftsman , and sculptor in his homeland of athens .	daedalus was the father of icarus and best described as a ( n ) :	daedalus was the father of icarus and best described as a ( n ) :
but , in mythological ancient greece , the line that separated god from man was absolute and the punishment for mortals who attempted to cross it was severe . such was the case for icarus and daedalus . years before icarus was born , his father daedalus was highly regarded as a genius inventor , craftsman , and sculptor in his homeland of athens .	what warning was given to icarus ?	what warning was given to icarus ?
but , in mythological ancient greece , the line that separated god from man was absolute and the punishment for mortals who attempted to cross it was severe . such was the case for icarus and daedalus . years before icarus was born , his father daedalus was highly regarded as a genius inventor , craftsman , and sculptor in his homeland of athens .	as daedalus watched icarus fly toward the sun , he felt :	as daedalus watched icarus fly toward the sun , he felt :
florentine intellectuals began to spread the idea of reformulating classical greek and roman works , while placing greater value on individual creativity than collective production . a few brave painters , who for many centuries , had been paid by the square foot , successfully petitioned their patrons to pay them on the basis of merit instead . within a single generation , people 's attitudes about objects and their makers would shift dramatically , such that in 1550 , giorgio vasari , not incidentally a friend of michelangelo , published an influential book called , `` lives of the most excellent painters , sculptors and architects , '' elevating these types of creators to rock star status by sharing juicy biographical details .	prior to the renaissance , painters were paid on the basis of :	prior to the renaissance , painters were paid on the basis of :
when they 're triggered by contact , they shoot with an explosive force . it exerts over 550 times the pressure of mike tyson 's strongest punch to inject venom into the victim . some jellyfish stings barely tingle , but others cause severe skin damage .	the explosive sting of some jellyfish exerts ____ times the pressure of mike tyson 's strongest punch .	the explosive sting of some jellyfish exerts ____ times the pressure of mike tyson 's strongest punch .
[ ♪ ] now , cassini has one last , daring assignment . april 26 , 2017 the grand finale begins . [ ♪ ] cassini 's grand finale is a brand new adventure . [ ♪ ] twenty-two dives through the space between saturn and its rings .	describe what will be cassini ’ s grand finale .	describe what will be cassini ’ s grand finale .
some chemical tags will unwind the dna , making it easier to transcribe , which ramps up production of the associated protein . epigenetic changes can survive cell division , which means they could affect an organism for its entire life . sometimes that 's a good thing .	what is true about epigenetic marks and cell division ?	what is true about epigenetic marks and cell division ?
then finally i realized , hard work is a real secret to their success . all successful people work very hard . martha stewart said to me , `` i 'm a real hard worker .	the video illustrates that people who are not the smartest can still succeed if they work hard . it also shows that people who are very smart may not succeed if they don ’ t work hard . what did you think when you saw this ? how does it apply to your life ?	the video illustrates that people who are not the smartest can still succeed if they work hard . it also shows that people who are very smart may not succeed if they don ’ t work hard . what did you think when you saw this ? how does it apply to your life ?
studies have found connections between toxo and schizophrenia , biopolar disorder , obsessive compulsive disorder , and aggression . it also slows reactions and decreases concentration , which may be why one study found that people involved in traffic accidents were almost three times more likely to have toxoplasma . so is toxo manipulating our brains as an evolutionary strategy to get predatory cats to eat us ?	infection with toxoplasma is associated with an increased risk of traffic accidents . this could be due to the parasite causing a lack of concentration and increased reaction times . can you think of an experiment to confirm whether infection with toxoplasma truly increases the risk of accidents ?	infection with toxoplasma is associated with an increased risk of traffic accidents . this could be due to the parasite causing a lack of concentration and increased reaction times . can you think of an experiment to confirm whether infection with toxoplasma truly increases the risk of accidents ?
using words to insult , humiliate , objectify or marginalise disfavoured people . now , if that this disfavoured person is god , we 're talking about supernatural swearing , which was particularly taboo in victorian times . it was believed that casually or vainly referring to god would physically injure god himself , literally .	what was the most taboo type of swearing during the victorian era ?	what was the most taboo type of swearing during the victorian era ?
and that one cell reproduced itself , dividing , dividing and dividing until there were 10 trillion of them . do you realize there 's more cells in one person 's body than there are stars in the milky way ? but those 10 trillion cells are n't just sitting there in a big pile .	hanson says , `` there are more cells in the human body than there are :	hanson says , `` there are more cells in the human body than there are :
in this lesson , we 'll add the single experimental fact that whenever anyone measures just how fast light moves , they get the same answer : 299,792,458 meters every second , which means that when we draw light on our space-time diagram , it 's world line always has to appear at the same angle . but we saw previously that speed , or equivalently world line angles , change when we look at things from other people 's perspective . to explore this contradiction , let 's see what happens if i start moving while i stand still and shine the laser at tom .	why doesn ’ t sliding the panels to change perspective work when we have light in the picture ?	why doesn ’ t sliding the panels to change perspective work when we have light in the picture ?
in option two , if the hero weighs 5,400 pounds all the time , then he would be bones and flesh at 18 feet with 5,400 pounds of weight supported by two legs . the weight would be exerted on the leg bones at different angles as he moves . bones , while hard , are not malleable , meaning they do not bend , so they break easily . the tendons would also be at risk of tearing .	bones are not malleable , which means they	bones are not malleable , which means they
some have far fewer young and take much better care of them , brooding their precious cargo for days , even months . this speedy copepod totes her beautifully packaged eggs for days . this phronima crustacean carries her babies on her chest , then carefully places them in a gelatinous barrel .	where does a phronema crustacean carry its eggs ?	where does a phronema crustacean carry its eggs ?
and it 's in all sorts of biological material . if you burn garden rubbish , in the ash that you get in the end is potassium , which is presumably why it 's called potash . so as neil quite literally wets the wall , to get rid of all the un-reacted potassium .	what does the professor give as the possible reason for the fact that we call burned garden rubbish “ potash ” ?	what does the professor give as the possible reason for the fact that we call burned garden rubbish “ potash ” ?
smell starts when you sniff molecules from the air into your nostrils . 95 % of your nasal cavity is used just to filter that air before it hits your lungs . but at the very back of your nose is a region called the olfactory epithelium , a little patch of skin that 's key to everything you smell .	approximately 95 % of your nasal cavity is used simply to ________ .	approximately 95 % of your nasal cavity is used simply to ________ .
the evolutionary tango of animal genitalia . can you guess what you 're looking at ?	what is meant when we say that genitalia are involved in `` an evolutionary arms race '' ?	what is meant when we say that genitalia are involved in `` an evolutionary arms race '' ?
whenever they needed to denote a chapter break or a division of text , scribes would switch from standard black to the red pigment , minium . another important visual device used to increase the prominence of certain portions of text was to set them off with large , ornate , and colorful capital letters , often surrounded by tiny , detailed paintings . the italians began to refer to these elaborate and diminutive paintings as < i > miniatura < /i > , illuminations .	what was the purpose of the large , ornate , and colorful capital letters used in books during medieval times ?	what was the purpose of the large , ornate , and colorful capital letters used in books during medieval times ?
fertilization . instantly , i became an embryo the size of a speck of dust . after a few hours of drifting , i cleaved in two , then four , then eight cells .	how big was the embryo ?	how big was the embryo ?
the all-pervading red dust seeped into every nook and cranny . the ho chi minh trail had a profound impact on the vietnam war and it was the key to hanoi 's success . north vietnamese victory was not determined by the battlefields , but by the trail , which was the political , strategic , and economic lynchpin .	the ho chi minh trail passed through all but which of these countries ?	the ho chi minh trail passed through all but which of these countries ?
the all-pervading red dust seeped into every nook and cranny . the ho chi minh trail had a profound impact on the vietnam war and it was the key to hanoi 's success . north vietnamese victory was not determined by the battlefields , but by the trail , which was the political , strategic , and economic lynchpin .	what did the united states government say about the ho chi minh trail ?	what did the united states government say about the ho chi minh trail ?
the all-pervading red dust seeped into every nook and cranny . the ho chi minh trail had a profound impact on the vietnam war and it was the key to hanoi 's success . north vietnamese victory was not determined by the battlefields , but by the trail , which was the political , strategic , and economic lynchpin .	from bombs to homesickness , travelers on the ho chi minh trail had to face many challenges . which do you think was the most difficult ? why ?	from bombs to homesickness , travelers on the ho chi minh trail had to face many challenges . which do you think was the most difficult ? why ?
the distant galaxies were all moving away from us , and the further away the were , the faster they were receding . hubble had discovered our universe is expanding , providing the first evidence for the big bang theory . along with the idea that the visible universe has been constantly expanding from a densely packed single point , one of this theory 's most important predictions is that the early universe consisted of just two gases : hydrogen and helium , in a ratio of three to one . and this prediction can also be tested with light .	one of the big bang theory ’ s most important predictions is that the early universe consisted of just two gases . which ones ?	one of the big bang theory ’ s most important predictions is that the early universe consisted of just two gases . which ones ?
no ! some motions have only relative meaning , but some motions have absolute meaning , are absolutely real . for example , constant speed is relative , but change in speed is absolute .	which of these has no hint of absolute meaning , only relative meaning ?	which of these has no hint of absolute meaning , only relative meaning ?
this phenomenon is called the magnus effect . this type of kick , often referred to as a banana kick , is attempted regularly , and it is one of the elements that makes the beautiful game beautiful . but curving the ball with the precision needed to both bend around the wall and back into the goal is difficult .	can a banana kick be performed on the moon ?	can a banana kick be performed on the moon ?
in fact , today , the interconnected great lakes contain almost 20 % of the world 's supply of fresh surface water . the water 's journey begins in the far north of lake superior , which is the deepest , coldest , and clearest of the lakes , containing half the system 's water . lake superior sinks to depths of 406 meters , creating a unique and diverse ecosystem that includes more that 80 fish species . a given drop of water spends on average 200 years in this lake before flowing into lake michigan or lake huron .	trace the path or journey a raindrop might take from lake superior to the atlantic ocean . what different sights and species might it encounter along the way ?	trace the path or journey a raindrop might take from lake superior to the atlantic ocean . what different sights and species might it encounter along the way ?
the transformation that gives this symmetry is reflection by an imaginary mirror that slices vertically through the body . biologists call this bilateral symmetry . as with all symmetries found in living things , it 's only approximate , but still a striking feature of the human body .	list a few advantages to bilateral symmetry .	list a few advantages to bilateral symmetry .
the transformation that gives this symmetry is reflection by an imaginary mirror that slices vertically through the body . biologists call this bilateral symmetry . as with all symmetries found in living things , it 's only approximate , but still a striking feature of the human body .	why is the study of symmetry important to biologists ? anthropologists ? other experts / professionals ?	why is the study of symmetry important to biologists ? anthropologists ? other experts / professionals ?
if this was the earth ... if this were the earth then the highest mountain to the lowest valley would be ... about 14m apart . that is shocking .	if the avogadro project 's silicon sphere were the earth , how far apart would the highest mountain be from the lowest valley ?	if the avogadro project 's silicon sphere were the earth , how far apart would the highest mountain be from the lowest valley ?
so here we have a sample of cobalt . now i have got lots and lots of different samples of cobalt in my drawer , so this is cobalt sponge . cobalt is , in many ways , similar to iron . it can form magnets .	where did the professor say we could find cobalt in the home ?	where did the professor say we could find cobalt in the home ?
so here we have a sample of cobalt . now i have got lots and lots of different samples of cobalt in my drawer , so this is cobalt sponge . cobalt is , in many ways , similar to iron . it can form magnets .	cobalt compounds have been used for millennia as a pigment for glass and ceramics . what is the color of these pigments ?	cobalt compounds have been used for millennia as a pigment for glass and ceramics . what is the color of these pigments ?
so here we have a sample of cobalt . now i have got lots and lots of different samples of cobalt in my drawer , so this is cobalt sponge . cobalt is , in many ways , similar to iron . it can form magnets .	cobalt is essential to all animal life as a key constituent of cobalamin , a vitamin . what is this more commonly known as ?	cobalt is essential to all animal life as a key constituent of cobalamin , a vitamin . what is this more commonly known as ?
take this haiku by the 18th-century japanese poet issa . `` on a branch floating downriver , a cricket singing . '' the first way to meet a metaphor is just to see the world through its eyes : an insect sings from a branch passing by in the middle of the river .	the speaker ( a poet , you won ’ t be surprised to hear ) says poems are good places to find metaphors , and that when you read a poem about a cricket singing from a branch in the middle of a river , you will recognize that that image says something larger about our human lives and how we live them . that might seem a lot to put into a cricket . do you think that a description of a cricket would be read the same way or mean the same thing if it had been in a science paper about crickets instead of a poem ? do we read things in different ways at different times , and can you say why a person might want to read a poem ( or listen to the words of a song ) at all ?	the speaker ( a poet , you won ’ t be surprised to hear ) says poems are good places to find metaphors , and that when you read a poem about a cricket singing from a branch in the middle of a river , you will recognize that that image says something larger about our human lives and how we live them . that might seem a lot to put into a cricket . do you think that a description of a cricket would be read the same way or mean the same thing if it had been in a science paper about crickets instead of a poem ? do we read things in different ways at different times , and can you say why a person might want to read a poem ( or listen to the words of a song ) at all ?
they say the pen is mightier than the sword , and authorities have often agreed . from outlawed religious tracts and revolutionary manifestos to censored and burned books , we know the potential power of words to overturn the social order .	who were the pythagoreans ?	who were the pythagoreans ?
lead poisoning is still a big problem in the us today—and not just in communities you may have heard of , like flint , michigan . so , what ’ s actually happening to the brain when you have lead poisoning ? and is there anything we can do to stop it ?	how can lead give a person brain damage ?	how can lead give a person brain damage ?
but why do some people get allergies and others do n't ? allergies tend to run in families , so genetics may be one culprit . in fact , errors in a gene that helps regulate the immune system are associated with higher rates of allergies .	explain one theory for why growing up on a farm might reduce your risk of allergies .	explain one theory for why growing up on a farm might reduce your risk of allergies .
the two electrons from oxygen 's outer shell are shared with two electrons from both hydrogens as they bond together , and the remaining four outer shell electrons from oxygen form two pairs . we call the bonds between these atoms covalent bonds . the pairs of electrons are all negatively charged .	covalent bonds result from :	covalent bonds result from :
in your facebook network , that might be how parties are organized , around that hub that 's always sending out the group messages . we call those hubs in forests mother trees ; they 're the big old trees in the forest . and they fix the carbon in their leaves , and they send it down through their massive trunks and into the networks all around them that are linked up to all the other trees and seedlings , the young ones , and they start sending that carbon everywhere .	mother trees serve as hubs in the forest , where kin seedlings establish in their vast mycorrhizal networks . what are some ways we can use this knowledge to ensure healthy regeneration of disturbed ( e.g. , logged ) forest ?	mother trees serve as hubs in the forest , where kin seedlings establish in their vast mycorrhizal networks . what are some ways we can use this knowledge to ensure healthy regeneration of disturbed ( e.g. , logged ) forest ?
honeybees are fascinating creatures for a number of reasons : their incredible work ethic , the sugary sweet syrup they produce and their intricate social structure . but another reason is that honeybees are , in fact , excellent mathematicians . scientists claim the tiny insects can calculate angles , and can even comprehend the roundness of the earth .	explain why the fact that a circle maximizes area for a given perimeter translates to the statement that a cylinder maximizes the volume for a given surface area .	explain why the fact that a circle maximizes area for a given perimeter translates to the statement that a cylinder maximizes the volume for a given surface area .
so , how natural selection works . now , the way these forests are organized makes them both resilient and vulnerable . they 're resilient because there 's many mother trees , and there 's many fungal species linking them together .	mycorrhizal networks are organized in such a way that forests are both resilient and vulnerable at the same time . why are forests resilient , and what can we do to ensure they remain that way ?	mycorrhizal networks are organized in such a way that forests are both resilient and vulnerable at the same time . why are forests resilient , and what can we do to ensure they remain that way ?
we have to use our other senses to make observations and draw conclusions . observations are then compiled , and we create a model . no , not that kind of model . a model is a way scientists describe the properties of physical phenomena .	what is a scientific model ?	what is a scientific model ?
our ruler measures length , which is the right quantity , but it has n't been designed with the flexibility required for the task at hand . so , if standardized tests are given the wrong job , or are n't designed properly , they may end up measuring the wrong things . in the case of schools , students with test anxiety may have trouble performing their best on a standardized test , not because they do n't know the answers , but because they 're feeling too nervous to share what they 've learned .	what sorts of things might a standardized test do a good job of measuring ? by contrast , what sorts of things might a standardized test do a poor job of measuring ?	what sorts of things might a standardized test do a good job of measuring ? by contrast , what sorts of things might a standardized test do a poor job of measuring ?
austrian physicist erwin schrödinger is one of the founders of quantum mechanics , but he 's most famous for something he never actually did : a thought experiment involving a cat . he imagined taking a cat and placing it in a sealed box with a device that had a 50 % chance of killing the cat in the next hour .	schrödinger ’ s cat thought experiment raises deep philosophical issues about quantum mechanics , and physicists have been discussing it since 1935. discuss some ways this imaginary experiment runs into problems with our everyday intuition about how the world works .	schrödinger ’ s cat thought experiment raises deep philosophical issues about quantum mechanics , and physicists have been discussing it since 1935. discuss some ways this imaginary experiment runs into problems with our everyday intuition about how the world works .
austrian physicist erwin schrödinger is one of the founders of quantum mechanics , but he 's most famous for something he never actually did : a thought experiment involving a cat . he imagined taking a cat and placing it in a sealed box with a device that had a 50 % chance of killing the cat in the next hour .	we know quantum particles can occupy more than one state at the same time because :	we know quantum particles can occupy more than one state at the same time because :
here is an image . since galaxy clusters are representative slices of the universe , scaled-down versions . they are mostly made up of dark matter , and that 's what you see in this bluish purple .	in order of most to least , galaxy clusters are made of :	in order of most to least , galaxy clusters are made of :
shaw . so neil and i are preparing for one of my favourite reactions . itís called the barking dog reaction .	sulfur exists as several allotropes , but which is the predominant one found in nature ?	sulfur exists as several allotropes , but which is the predominant one found in nature ?
shall we take it home ? so terbium , just like europium , is often used in television screens and various types of displays and where it comes in is that it gives green and yellow colours , which in contrast to the red and blue which europium gives you , gives you the full selection that you need to give colour images . so ytterby gruva , ytterby mine , what a great place , the snow is falling .	terbium was used in television screens , but in contrast to europium , terbium gives off these other colors :	terbium was used in television screens , but in contrast to europium , terbium gives off these other colors :
they might be bits of tissue , red blood cells , or clumps of protein . and because they 're suspended within the vitreous humor , the gel-like liquid that fills the inside of your eye , floaters drift along with your eye movements , and seem to bounce a little when your eye stops . floaters may be only barely distinguishable most of the time .	what part of the eye do you actually allows you to `` see '' by converting light to nerve impulses ?	what part of the eye do you actually allows you to `` see '' by converting light to nerve impulses ?
they might be bits of tissue , red blood cells , or clumps of protein . and because they 're suspended within the vitreous humor , the gel-like liquid that fills the inside of your eye , floaters drift along with your eye movements , and seem to bounce a little when your eye stops . floaters may be only barely distinguishable most of the time .	in what part of the eye do `` floaters '' occur ?	in what part of the eye do `` floaters '' occur ?
flatulence , or passing gas , is a normal daily phenomenon . most individuals , yes , that includes you , will make anywhere from 500-1500 milliliters of gas and can pass gas ten to twenty times a day .	based on what you learned in the video , which foods could you consume that would give you less flatulence ? create a menu for a four-course flatulence-free family function !	based on what you learned in the video , which foods could you consume that would give you less flatulence ? create a menu for a four-course flatulence-free family function !
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar i got in my first car accident when i was sixteen . i had just gotten my license and i was driving home when a car pulled into the intersection and bang !	using a car accident as an example , what phenomenon does sitze refer to ?	using a car accident as an example , what phenomenon does sitze refer to ?
you know , with the black plague and all . shakespeare does use a lot of words . one of his most impressive accomplishments is his use of insults .	how do you think audience reactions to shakespeare 's work has changed over the years ? how have the demographics of his audiences changed over time ?	how do you think audience reactions to shakespeare 's work has changed over the years ? how have the demographics of his audiences changed over time ?
those simple sugars then move along to the respirators , another set of microbes that snatch up these simple sugars and burn them as fuel . as food travels through our digestive tract , it reaches the fermentors who extract energy from these sugars by converting them into chemicals , like alcohol and hydrogen gas , which they spew out as waste products . deeper in the depths of our gut city , the syntrophs eke out a living off the fermenters ' trash .	as food travels through our digestive tract , it reaches the fermenters . what do they do ?	as food travels through our digestive tract , it reaches the fermenters . what do they do ?
as a result , most europeans in the early 14th century experienced a steady decline in living standards , marked by famine , poverty and poor health , leaving them vulnerable to infection . and indeed , the skeletal remains of black death victims found in london show telltale signs of malnutrition and prior illness . the destruction caused by the black death changed humanity in two important ways . on a societal level , the rapid loss of population led to important changes in europe 's economic conditions .	what proportion of the affected population was killed by the black death ?	what proportion of the affected population was killed by the black death ?
as a result , most europeans in the early 14th century experienced a steady decline in living standards , marked by famine , poverty and poor health , leaving them vulnerable to infection . and indeed , the skeletal remains of black death victims found in london show telltale signs of malnutrition and prior illness . the destruction caused by the black death changed humanity in two important ways . on a societal level , the rapid loss of population led to important changes in europe 's economic conditions .	when did the black death initially occur ?	when did the black death initially occur ?
as a result , most europeans in the early 14th century experienced a steady decline in living standards , marked by famine , poverty and poor health , leaving them vulnerable to infection . and indeed , the skeletal remains of black death victims found in london show telltale signs of malnutrition and prior illness . the destruction caused by the black death changed humanity in two important ways . on a societal level , the rapid loss of population led to important changes in europe 's economic conditions .	how would you describe the population that existed right before the black death in terms of size , availability of food , and general health ?	how would you describe the population that existed right before the black death in terms of size , availability of food , and general health ?
as a result , most europeans in the early 14th century experienced a steady decline in living standards , marked by famine , poverty and poor health , leaving them vulnerable to infection . and indeed , the skeletal remains of black death victims found in london show telltale signs of malnutrition and prior illness . the destruction caused by the black death changed humanity in two important ways . on a societal level , the rapid loss of population led to important changes in europe 's economic conditions .	what has dna analysis revealed about the black death ?	what has dna analysis revealed about the black death ?
in a line of verse , a foot is a certain number of stressed and unstressed syllables forming a distinct unit , just as a musical measure consists of a certain number of beats . one line of verse is usually made up of several feet . for example , a dactyl is a metrical foot of three syllables with the first stressed , and the second and third unstressed .	review the definitions of “ trochee ” and “ dactyl. ” to which kinds of moods or tones might these types of feet be suited , based on the way they sound in verse ?	review the definitions of “ trochee ” and “ dactyl. ” to which kinds of moods or tones might these types of feet be suited , based on the way they sound in verse ?
his visits continued night after night . before long , psyche was pregnant . she rejoiced , but was also conflicted .	is there a simple “ moral ” to the myth of psyche ? if so , what do you think it is ?	is there a simple “ moral ” to the myth of psyche ? if so , what do you think it is ?
the real genesis of franchising was not in stitches or beef , it was in beauty . martha matilda harper was a canadian-born maid . she made the beds , cleaned house , did the shopping .	martha matilda harper developed a secret formula for :	martha matilda harper developed a secret formula for :
the real genesis of franchising was not in stitches or beef , it was in beauty . martha matilda harper was a canadian-born maid . she made the beds , cleaned house , did the shopping .	how much money did harper save to start her own business ?	how much money did harper save to start her own business ?
entropy also increases and helps the reaction along because the neat , organized log of wood is now converted into randomly moving water vapor and carbon dioxide . the energy shed by this exothermic reaction powers the endothermic reaction of cooking your dinner . bon appétit !	the chemicals you begin a reaction with are called the _____ and the chemicals you have at the end of a reaction are called the _____ .	the chemicals you begin a reaction with are called the _____ and the chemicals you have at the end of a reaction are called the _____ .
entropy also increases and helps the reaction along because the neat , organized log of wood is now converted into randomly moving water vapor and carbon dioxide . the energy shed by this exothermic reaction powers the endothermic reaction of cooking your dinner . bon appétit !	which of the following is an example of an exothermic reaction ?	which of the following is an example of an exothermic reaction ?
entropy also increases and helps the reaction along because the neat , organized log of wood is now converted into randomly moving water vapor and carbon dioxide . the energy shed by this exothermic reaction powers the endothermic reaction of cooking your dinner . bon appétit !	if an exothermic chemical reaction occurs , the surroundings become warmer . where does this energy come from ?	if an exothermic chemical reaction occurs , the surroundings become warmer . where does this energy come from ?
entropy also increases and helps the reaction along because the neat , organized log of wood is now converted into randomly moving water vapor and carbon dioxide . the energy shed by this exothermic reaction powers the endothermic reaction of cooking your dinner . bon appétit !	imagine a chemist is in the lab and trying to make some chemical reactions happen . in one reaction she reacts chemicals in an exothermic reaction and there is an increase in entropy . a second chemical reaction she is trying to run is endothermic and there is a decrease in entropy . which of the two reactions is more likely to occur and why ?	imagine a chemist is in the lab and trying to make some chemical reactions happen . in one reaction she reacts chemicals in an exothermic reaction and there is an increase in entropy . a second chemical reaction she is trying to run is endothermic and there is a decrease in entropy . which of the two reactions is more likely to occur and why ?
different ones respond to different types of damage . one common error is base mismatches . each nucleotide contains a base , and during dna replication , the enzyme dna polymerase is supposed to bring in the right partner to pair with every base on each template strand .	base mismatches take place :	base mismatches take place :
it would take over 25 years for the quantum revolution to theoretically validate his hypothesis . but va n't hoff supported his theory using optical rotation . va n't hoff noticed that only compounds containing a central carbon bound to four different atoms or groups rotated plane-polarized light . clearly there 's something unique about this class of compounds .	to support his theory concerning the geometry of saturated carbon atoms , van ’ t hoff used the phenomenon of	to support his theory concerning the geometry of saturated carbon atoms , van ’ t hoff used the phenomenon of
germany marched on paris but was stopped by the french and both sides dug themselves into trenches in what became known as the western front . on the eastern front , the russians invaded austria-hungary but were stopped in eastern prussia by the germans . the ottoman empire joined in on the site of the central powers in 1914 .	name the man from austria-hungary who was assassinated , marking the beginning of wwi .	name the man from austria-hungary who was assassinated , marking the beginning of wwi .
and to do that , you got ta go out there take risks , make mistakes . third : protect forests . they need you to do that because they ca n't do it themselves .	how humans treat forests will have an important influence on how well we cope with climate change . what can you do to help people help forests ?	how humans treat forests will have an important influence on how well we cope with climate change . what can you do to help people help forests ?
and prominent mathematicians , like gerolamo cardano , avoided using zero , even though it would have made it much easier to find solutions to cubic and the quartic equations . even today it 's illegal to use some numbers for different reasons . some are banned because of what they represent .	why today it is illegal to use some numbers in some countries ?	why today it is illegal to use some numbers in some countries ?
her simple demonstration is just the tip of the iceberg . she 's got trills , chatters , multiple whistle calls , more combination vocalizations , even twitters . yet sadly enough , we may not get to hear everything she has to say .	vocalizations are characterized by the following :	vocalizations are characterized by the following :
his unconscious motor centers remembered what the conscious mind had forgotten . what milner had discovered was that the declarative memory of names , dates and facts is different from the procedural memory of riding a bicycle or signing your name . and we now know that procedural memory relies more on the basal ganglia and cerebellum , structures that were intact in h.m. 's brain .	declarative memory is different than procedural memory . declarative memory involves _________ while procedural memory involves _________ .	declarative memory is different than procedural memory . declarative memory involves _________ while procedural memory involves _________ .
however , this evidence does not account for how the continents moved apart . for that , we 'll need to take a close look at the earth below our feet . though you may not realize it , the ground below you is traveling across the earth at a rate of about 10 cm/year , or the speed at which your fingernails grow .	how did the peak of mt . everest rise from sea level to 8,848 feet ?	how did the peak of mt . everest rise from sea level to 8,848 feet ?
political movements , too , have used wall writing to visually spread their messages . during world war ii , both the nazi party and resistance groups covered walls with propaganda . and the berlin wall 's one-sided graffiti can be seen as a striking symbol of repression versus relatively unrestricted public access . as the counterculture movements associated with graffiti become mainstream , does graffiti , too , become accepted ? since the creation of so-called graffiti unions in the 1970s and the admission of select graffiti artists into art galleries a decade later , graffiti has straddled the line between being outside and inside the mainstream .	you are walking along a city street and notice an open wall covered with graffiti , or as you drive through a local town , you notice the railroad overpass has been “ tagged. ” what is your initial response ? has this lesson changed your thoughts about this ? describe some local graffiti you may have seen in your area of the world .	you are walking along a city street and notice an open wall covered with graffiti , or as you drive through a local town , you notice the railroad overpass has been “ tagged. ” what is your initial response ? has this lesson changed your thoughts about this ? describe some local graffiti you may have seen in your area of the world .
physicists call it the law of inertia , which is a fancy way of saying that moving objects do n't spontaneously speed up , slow down , or change direction . it is this inertia that you must overcome to get your bicycle moving . now you know that you have to overcome inertia to get your bicycle moving , but what is it that allows you to overcome it ?	if an object is at rest , what must be applied to get it moving ?	if an object is at rest , what must be applied to get it moving ?
so now the question is how do we remove that bad stuff as well ? that 's the idea behind cleaner coal . creating cleaner coal is really about trying to contain its ill effects with the help of special technologies that make the end product more acceptable .	why do we still use coal ?	why do we still use coal ?
so now the question is how do we remove that bad stuff as well ? that 's the idea behind cleaner coal . creating cleaner coal is really about trying to contain its ill effects with the help of special technologies that make the end product more acceptable .	which of these is a pollutant that coal emits when we burn it ?	which of these is a pollutant that coal emits when we burn it ?
so now the question is how do we remove that bad stuff as well ? that 's the idea behind cleaner coal . creating cleaner coal is really about trying to contain its ill effects with the help of special technologies that make the end product more acceptable .	_____ could be a way of making coal cleaner	_____ could be a way of making coal cleaner
so now the question is how do we remove that bad stuff as well ? that 's the idea behind cleaner coal . creating cleaner coal is really about trying to contain its ill effects with the help of special technologies that make the end product more acceptable .	true or false : our use of coal is currently declining	true or false : our use of coal is currently declining
all these factors pushed tap dancing to the fringes of the entertainment world . tap dance still existed ; there were dancers , but it was outside of the popular discourse . there were fewer and fewer places to dance and very little need for new tap dancers , so those who have been dancing in the 20s , 30s , and 40s , really had no one to pass along the art form to .	what 's your favorite style of dance ? give several examples of how it 's present in popular culture . if it 's not , explain why it disappeared .	what 's your favorite style of dance ? give several examples of how it 's present in popular culture . if it 's not , explain why it disappeared .
why is that ? inadequate sanitation , poor protection of drinking water sources , and improper hygiene often lead to sewage and feces-contaminated water . that 's the ideal breeding ground for dangerous bacteria , viruses , and parasites . and the effects of these pathogens are staggering .	sewage or feces infested water is the ideal breeding ground for :	sewage or feces infested water is the ideal breeding ground for :
the venom of one box jellyfish can kill a human in under five minutes , making it one of the most potent poisons of any animal in the world . other jellyfish superpowers are less lethal . one species of jellyfish glows green when it 's agitated , mostly thanks to a biofluorescent compound called green fluorescent protein , or gfp .	jellyfish are __________ percent water .	jellyfish are __________ percent water .
the venom of one box jellyfish can kill a human in under five minutes , making it one of the most potent poisons of any animal in the world . other jellyfish superpowers are less lethal . one species of jellyfish glows green when it 's agitated , mostly thanks to a biofluorescent compound called green fluorescent protein , or gfp .	some jellyfish are nicknamed “ immortal jellyfish ” due to their ability to “ age in reverse. ” describe how this feature works .	some jellyfish are nicknamed “ immortal jellyfish ” due to their ability to “ age in reverse. ” describe how this feature works .
our current theory of addiction comes in part from a series of experiments that were carried out earlier in the 20th century . the experiment is simple : you take a rat and put it in a cage with two water bottles . one is just water , the other is water laced with heroin or cocaine .	according to psychologist bruce alexander , what was missing in the experiment where the rat was kept in a cage with nothing but two water bottles , and developed a drug addiction ?	according to psychologist bruce alexander , what was missing in the experiment where the rat was kept in a cage with nothing but two water bottles , and developed a drug addiction ?
nearby plants can eavesdrop on those signals , like overhearing your neighbor sneeze and stocking up on cold medicine . different plants convey those warnings using different chemical languages . individual sagebrush plants in the same meadow release slightly different sets of alarm chemicals .	in what ways are communication systems between plants similar to communication systems between animals ? in what ways are they different ?	in what ways are communication systems between plants similar to communication systems between animals ? in what ways are they different ?
over time , through this epigenetic reprogramming , some cells develop into heart cells , and others into liver cells . each of the approximately 200 cell types in your body has essentially the same genome but its own distinct epigenome . the epigenome also mediates a lifelong dialogue between genes and the environment . the chemical tags that turn genes on and off can be influenced by factors including diet , chemical exposure , and medication .	the epigenome is :	the epigenome is :
maybe as civilizations develop , they quickly discover communication technologies far more sophisticated and useful than electromagnetic waves . maybe all the action takes place inside the mysterious recently discovered dark matter , or dark energy , that appear to account for most of the universe 's mass . or maybe we 're looking at the wrong scale .	what has nasa 's kepler mission discovered ?	what has nasa 's kepler mission discovered ?
in 1909 , ernest marsden and hans geiger , working for rutherford , shot alpha particles at gold atoms and were stunned to find that some bounced straight backwards . this showed that most of the mass of the atom is concentrated in a tiny nucleus . the cartoon atom you learn in grade school , with electrons orbiting like a miniature solar system , that 's rutherford 's .	how did ernest rutherford determine that most of the mass of an atom is in a tiny nucleus ?	how did ernest rutherford determine that most of the mass of an atom is in a tiny nucleus ?
during the day , bright sunlight made this small asteroid impossible to see . astronomers needed to calculate ceres 's orbit . this would let them predict where it was going to be in the vast night sky on any given night .	why do astronomers calculate orbits ?	why do astronomers calculate orbits ?
sometimes cameras can help us see matter or movements that are too small for the naked eye . botanists use multiple photographs to show the life cycle of plants and how flowers turn over the course of a few hours to follow the sun in what is called phototropism , growing towards the light . mathematicians have used photos to look at where in the twists and turns of a whip the crack sound comes when the whip is breaking the sound barrier .	what is the process called when plants tilt to follow the sunlight ?	what is the process called when plants tilt to follow the sunlight ?
if they collide , smaller particles will speed up , larger particles will slow down . the total energy is constant . fourth , gases do not attract one another , and they do n't like to touch .	which of the following explains how energy remains constant in a collision ?	which of the following explains how energy remains constant in a collision ?
so that 's how you flip a featured ted-ed video , we 've got one more major feature to tell you about . using the ted-ed platform , you can flip any video from youtube . that means you can create a lesson around any ted talk , any tedx talk , but also any of the other thousands of great educational videos on youtube , including the ones that you yourself could record , upload and flip .	which ted-ed or youtube video will you flip first ?	which ted-ed or youtube video will you flip first ?
so that 's how you flip a featured ted-ed video , we 've got one more major feature to tell you about . using the ted-ed platform , you can flip any video from youtube . that means you can create a lesson around any ted talk , any tedx talk , but also any of the other thousands of great educational videos on youtube , including the ones that you yourself could record , upload and flip .	what type of videos can you flip into a lesson using the ted-ed website ?	what type of videos can you flip into a lesson using the ted-ed website ?
why is that ? inadequate sanitation , poor protection of drinking water sources , and improper hygiene often lead to sewage and feces-contaminated water . that 's the ideal breeding ground for dangerous bacteria , viruses , and parasites .	name the potential heavy metals that could be found in drinking water .	name the potential heavy metals that could be found in drinking water .
pop ! pemdas , there is another spot ! do n't forget , there can be parentheses inside parentheses .	which is not a part of pemdas ?	which is not a part of pemdas ?
that creates a low-pressure zone that pulls dissolved gases out of the synovial fluid , just like the carbon dioxide that fizzes out of soda when you twist open the cap . inside the joint , the escaping gases form a bubble with a pop . but the bubble does n't last long .	what type of joint is most commonly popped ?	what type of joint is most commonly popped ?
that creates a low-pressure zone that pulls dissolved gases out of the synovial fluid , just like the carbon dioxide that fizzes out of soda when you twist open the cap . inside the joint , the escaping gases form a bubble with a pop . but the bubble does n't last long .	what factors would affect how easy it is to pop a particular joint ?	what factors would affect how easy it is to pop a particular joint ?
however you have to be careful because the compounds that make our sweat smell are sulphur compounds , so if you get selenium into the body then you make similar compounds of selenium but which smell much worse . and so it is said that people get off the bus when selenium chemists get on . and tellurium is even worse still .	as the professor mentioned , why is it said that people get off the bus when selenium chemists get on ?	as the professor mentioned , why is it said that people get off the bus when selenium chemists get on ?
in the last several decades , we have seen the world populations of most penguin species decline by up to 90 % , with two of them , the yellow-eyed and galapagos penguins , down to just a few thousand birds . penguins are an indicator species , the proverbial `` canary in the coal mine . '' simply put , if penguins are dying , it means our oceans are dying . and sadly , most of this decline is attributable to human activities .	penguins play an important role in ocean ecosystems . what role do they play , and how might our oceans and the environment be altered if penguins go extinct ?	penguins play an important role in ocean ecosystems . what role do they play , and how might our oceans and the environment be altered if penguins go extinct ?
an understanding of anatomy is an integral part of designing any 2-d or 3-d animated character that needs to move realistically in the context of its environment . regardless of the number of dimensions your character has , you 'll need to create a skeleton , which in animation terms is known as a rig . once the rig is finalized and the range of motion is determined , the next step is to choose anchor points .	regardless of the number of dimensions your character has , you ’ ll need to create a skeleton , which in animation terms is known as what ?	regardless of the number of dimensions your character has , you ’ ll need to create a skeleton , which in animation terms is known as what ?
to answer this , we first need a way of dealing with rather small numbers , or in some cases extremely large numbers . this leads us to the concept of logarithms . well , what are logarithms ? let 's take the base number , b , and raise it to a power , p , like 2 to the 3rd power , and have it equal a number n. we get an exponential equation : b raised to the p power , equals n. in our example , that 'd be 2 raised to the 3rd power , equals 8 .	what can you repeat to help you remember the formula for logarithms ?	what can you repeat to help you remember the formula for logarithms ?
big data is so voluminous that it overwhelms the technologies of the day and challenges us to create the next generation of data storage tools and techniques . so , big data is n't new . in fact , physicists at cern have been rangling with the challenge of their ever-expanding big data for decades .	was the web invented to share big data ?	was the web invented to share big data ?
big data is so voluminous that it overwhelms the technologies of the day and challenges us to create the next generation of data storage tools and techniques . so , big data is n't new . in fact , physicists at cern have been rangling with the challenge of their ever-expanding big data for decades .	is there a minimum size needed to be called big data ?	is there a minimum size needed to be called big data ?
big data is so voluminous that it overwhelms the technologies of the day and challenges us to create the next generation of data storage tools and techniques . so , big data is n't new . in fact , physicists at cern have been rangling with the challenge of their ever-expanding big data for decades .	the key characteristics of big data are often called the 3vs : volume , velocity , and variety . explain the role each one of these plays in making big data hard to handle . the complexity of some data sets leads people to add extra dimensions such as veracity and variability to this list . in what ways do these complicate things further ?	the key characteristics of big data are often called the 3vs : volume , velocity , and variety . explain the role each one of these plays in making big data hard to handle . the complexity of some data sets leads people to add extra dimensions such as veracity and variability to this list . in what ways do these complicate things further ?
everyone on the outside assumes they were working on recommended revisions to the articles . it 's an incredible gamble , and even when the convention presents the signed constitution on september 17th , not all delegates endorse it . the country will argue and debate for two more years before the document is adopted by the required nine out of 13 states .	assume today ’ s congress called for a national meeting of delegates from each state to discuss proposed amendments to the constitution . what do you think some of the significant differences would be between the grand convention and this hypothetical convention ?	assume today ’ s congress called for a national meeting of delegates from each state to discuss proposed amendments to the constitution . what do you think some of the significant differences would be between the grand convention and this hypothetical convention ?
everyone on the outside assumes they were working on recommended revisions to the articles . it 's an incredible gamble , and even when the convention presents the signed constitution on september 17th , not all delegates endorse it . the country will argue and debate for two more years before the document is adopted by the required nine out of 13 states .	the constitution was signed and presented by delegates on _________________ , 1787 , a date now nationally celebrated as constitution day .	the constitution was signed and presented by delegates on _________________ , 1787 , a date now nationally celebrated as constitution day .
even english once had something similar . remember the old-timey `` thou ? '' ironically , it was actually the informal pronoun for people you 're close with , while `` you '' was the formal and polite version .	in shakespeare ’ s twelfth night , why does the character sir toby belch advise sir andrew aguecheek to use “ thou ” for his enemy , instead of “ you ” ?	in shakespeare ’ s twelfth night , why does the character sir toby belch advise sir andrew aguecheek to use “ thou ” for his enemy , instead of “ you ” ?
in 1791 , he tried to flee the country but was caught . the attempted escape shattered people 's faith in the king . the royal family was arrested and the king charged with treason .	how did king louis permanently lose the faith of the french people ?	how did king louis permanently lose the faith of the french people ?
the prisoners name and classify these illusions , believing they 're perceiving actual entities . suddenly , one prisoner is freed and brought outside for the first time . the sunlight hurts his eyes and he finds the new environment disorienting .	how does the prisoner respond to seeing the world outside the cave for the first time ?	how does the prisoner respond to seeing the world outside the cave for the first time ?
the prisoners name and classify these illusions , believing they 're perceiving actual entities . suddenly , one prisoner is freed and brought outside for the first time . the sunlight hurts his eyes and he finds the new environment disorienting .	why would the other prisoners resist being freed after seeing the first prisoner return ?	why would the other prisoners resist being freed after seeing the first prisoner return ?
the prisoners name and classify these illusions , believing they 're perceiving actual entities . suddenly , one prisoner is freed and brought outside for the first time . the sunlight hurts his eyes and he finds the new environment disorienting .	which of the following is not one of the themes in the allegory ?	which of the following is not one of the themes in the allegory ?
the prisoners name and classify these illusions , believing they 're perceiving actual entities . suddenly , one prisoner is freed and brought outside for the first time . the sunlight hurts his eyes and he finds the new environment disorienting .	why do the other prisoners consider the first prisoner to have been ruined by venturing outside ?	why do the other prisoners consider the first prisoner to have been ruined by venturing outside ?
like any salt , natron can prevent decay by killing bacteria and preventing the body 's natural digestive enzymes from working . but natron is n't just any salt . it 's mainly a mixture of two alkaline salts , soda ash and baking soda .	natron is :	natron is :
and their relationship could be expressed in what was to become the most famous and consequential equation in history : e=mc^2 . einstein would not become a world famous icon for nearly another fifteen years . it was only after his later general theory of relativity was confirmed in 1919 by measuring the bending of starlight during a solar eclipse that the press would turn him into a celebrity .	surprisingly , einstein 's miracle year did not make him famous . that only happened later when :	surprisingly , einstein 's miracle year did not make him famous . that only happened later when :
oh , me from the past , you 're just a delight . [ theme music ] so most americans grew up hearing that the united states was founded by pasty english people who came here to escape religious persecution . and that 's true of the small proportion of people who settled in the massachusetts bay and created what we now know is new england .	the united states of america was originally founded by white men and their families who traveled to a new land to escape religious persecution .	the united states of america was originally founded by white men and their families who traveled to a new land to escape religious persecution .
logos is the use of logic and reason . this method can employ rhetorical devices such as analogies , examples , and citations of research or statistics . but it 's not just facts and figures .	an advertisement that focuses on statistics to sell a product uses :	an advertisement that focuses on statistics to sell a product uses :
what 's so great about the great lakes ? they 're known as america 's inland seas .	where are the great lakes located ?	where are the great lakes located ?
what 's so great about the great lakes ? they 're known as america 's inland seas .	how does the geographic location of the great lakes lead to the uniqueness of each lake ?	how does the geographic location of the great lakes lead to the uniqueness of each lake ?
what 's so great about the great lakes ? they 're known as america 's inland seas .	what kinds of efforts might be required to protect the great lakes and who would benefit from these measures ?	what kinds of efforts might be required to protect the great lakes and who would benefit from these measures ?
what 's so great about the great lakes ? they 're known as america 's inland seas .	which of the great lakes is the largest , containing half of all the water in the system ?	which of the great lakes is the largest , containing half of all the water in the system ?
what 's so great about the great lakes ? they 're known as america 's inland seas .	where does the water in the great lakes eventually end up ?	where does the water in the great lakes eventually end up ?
what 's so great about the great lakes ? they 're known as america 's inland seas .	the benefits provided by the great lakes system include :	the benefits provided by the great lakes system include :
but why ? what 's so great about him and his table ? is it because he made a comprehensive list of the known elements ? nah , you do n't earn a spot in science valhalla just for making a list .	many great thinkers have made discoveries that have gone unnoticed until after their deaths . name a few examples and explain their importance .	many great thinkers have made discoveries that have gone unnoticed until after their deaths . name a few examples and explain their importance .
and what if your relative 's health is good when she arrives at the hospital ? strangely enough , hospital b is still the better choice , with a survival rate of over 98 % . so how can hospital a have a better overall survival rate if hospital b has better survival rates for patients in each of the two groups ? what we 've stumbled upon is a case of simpson 's paradox , where the same set of data can appear to show opposite trends depending on how it 's grouped .	at first , which hospital appears to have the better survival rate ?	at first , which hospital appears to have the better survival rate ?
why ? because air is a fluid just like water . it has waves and eddies .	which of the following is not a fluid ?	which of the following is not a fluid ?
why ? because air is a fluid just like water . it has waves and eddies .	air and water are both fluids , but that doesn ’ t mean they always behave the same way . name three ways in which air and water are similar and three ways in which they differ .	air and water are both fluids , but that doesn ’ t mean they always behave the same way . name three ways in which air and water are similar and three ways in which they differ .
mysteries of vernacular : ukulele , a small , four-stringed guitar . oddly enough , the word ukulele , in its native hawaiian , literally translates to jumping flea . even more surprising , the instrument itself did not originate in hawaii .	what is the difference between a loanword ( like ukulele ) and a loan translation ? what are some examples of each ?	what is the difference between a loanword ( like ukulele ) and a loan translation ? what are some examples of each ?
mysteries of vernacular : ukulele , a small , four-stringed guitar . oddly enough , the word ukulele , in its native hawaiian , literally translates to jumping flea . even more surprising , the instrument itself did not originate in hawaii .	ukulele , in hawaiian , translates to	ukulele , in hawaiian , translates to
the rest would be europe ’ s jews , who would be worked to death . six million jews were killed by the nazis , many by starvation , but many through a chillingly planned effort of extermination in death camps . these death camps can be distinguished from concentration camps or labor camps in that their primary purpose was extermination of jews , roma people , communists , homosexuals , disabled people , and others that the nazis deemed unfit .	approximately , how many people were killed during the battle of stalingrad ?	approximately , how many people were killed during the battle of stalingrad ?
once inside the system , these foods are digested and the vitamins within them are taken up directly by the bloodstream . because blood plasma is water-based , water-soluble vitamins c and b have their transport cut out for them and can move around freely within the body . for lipid-soluble vitamins , dissolved in fat and found in foods like diary , butter and oils , this trip into the blood is a little more adventurous .	which vitamins are water-soluble ?	which vitamins are water-soluble ?
once inside the system , these foods are digested and the vitamins within them are taken up directly by the bloodstream . because blood plasma is water-based , water-soluble vitamins c and b have their transport cut out for them and can move around freely within the body . for lipid-soluble vitamins , dissolved in fat and found in foods like diary , butter and oils , this trip into the blood is a little more adventurous .	where can you find water-soluble vitamins in your body ?	where can you find water-soluble vitamins in your body ?
fiction engages the senses , helps us create vivid mental simulacra of the experiences the characters are having . stage and screen engage some of our senses directly . we see and hear the interactions of the characters and the setting .	what modes of entertainment engage our senses directly ?	what modes of entertainment engage our senses directly ?
emerson 's abjection of cultural traditions brought about what one contemporary called : `` america 's intellectual declaration of independence . '' and he established generational conflict and transformation as commanding ideas in american literature . emerson himself hardly seemed destined to fit a revolutionary mold .	emerson 's work ushered in generational conflict and transformation as commanding ideas in american literature . what other aspects of american history and society are dominated by these ideas .	emerson 's work ushered in generational conflict and transformation as commanding ideas in american literature . what other aspects of american history and society are dominated by these ideas .
if they are marked with minus , it 's the lighter one . but what if the first two piles you weigh do n't balance ? mark the coins on the heavier side with a plus and those on the lighter side with a minus .	in the original problem , if the two sides don ’ t balance after the first weighing , can you think of an alternate method of splitting up the coins for the second weighing ?	in the original problem , if the two sides don ’ t balance after the first weighing , can you think of an alternate method of splitting up the coins for the second weighing ?
and there 's another timeline to consider . in a healthy worm-bin habitat , worm reproduction will occur when the wigglers become sexually mature , indicated by an elongation of the segments into a bulbous structure . three-month old wigglers can produce two to three semi-translucent yellow worm cocoons a week .	worm reproduction can occur relatively rapidly . how long does it take for a worm to become sexually mature ?	worm reproduction can occur relatively rapidly . how long does it take for a worm to become sexually mature ?
h.m. 's mind could form the initial impressions , but without a hippocampus to perform this memory consolidation , they eroded , like messages scrawled in sand . but this was not the only memory distinction milner found . in a now famous experiment , she asked h.m. to trace a third star in the narrow space between the outlines of two concentric ones while he could only see his paper and pencil through a mirror . like anyone else performing such an awkward task for the first time , he did horribly .	milner , using the now famous experiment with the star outline , found that h.m. 's :	milner , using the now famous experiment with the star outline , found that h.m. 's :
to make matters worse , it 's so dark out that you can barely see , and the old lantern you grabbed on your way only illuminates a tiny area . can you figure out a way to have everyone escape in time ? remember : no more than two people can cross the bridge together , anyone crossing must either hold the lantern or stay right next to it , and any of you can safely wait in the dark on either side of the gorge . most importantly , everyone must be safely across before the zombies arrive .	why does everyone crossing the bridge have to stay together ?	why does everyone crossing the bridge have to stay together ?
it 's up to the animators to create the many planes , or layers . the use of green screen enables us to shoot individual elements moving , and to later assemble those layers one on top of the other . using software , we key out the green color , both on the background and play-doh . layer the cards , add the hands , insert a background , and if you planned your ingredients carefully , everything should come together just right .	what 's the wildest thing you would animate using a green screen ?	what 's the wildest thing you would animate using a green screen ?
in this world of huge predators , the river of giants , which is what some call this region of what is now northern africa , stood out as particularly dangerous . in most ecosystems , it 's lonely at the top of the food chain . there usually is n't enough prey to sustain many predators .	bones of extinct creatures provide some information about ancient ecosystems . what other data can scientists collect to reconstruct extinct ecosystems ?	bones of extinct creatures provide some information about ancient ecosystems . what other data can scientists collect to reconstruct extinct ecosystems ?
in this world of huge predators , the river of giants , which is what some call this region of what is now northern africa , stood out as particularly dangerous . in most ecosystems , it 's lonely at the top of the food chain . there usually is n't enough prey to sustain many predators .	in what way are the strange ecosystems and food webs of cretaceous north africa different from typical ecosystems today ? what factors allowed them to be so different ?	in what way are the strange ecosystems and food webs of cretaceous north africa different from typical ecosystems today ? what factors allowed them to be so different ?
the battered vessel and its 18 sailors were all that remained of a fleet that had departed three years before . yet her voyage was considered a success for the `` victoria '' had achieved something unprecedented : the first circumnavigation of the globe . but this story really begins in 1494 , two years after columbus 's voyage on behalf of spain .	why is magellan credited with the first circumnavigation of the globe if he never completed the journey ?	why is magellan credited with the first circumnavigation of the globe if he never completed the journey ?
they 're both traveling in a forward direction , so their velocity is also positive . you ca n't go from resting to your peak speed immediately . you 've got to build up to it .	what principle describes why you ca n't go from resting to your peak speed immediately ?	what principle describes why you ca n't go from resting to your peak speed immediately ?
so this is their left ear subconsciously trying ( and failing ) to pivot toward the sound . you can see another futile effort by our vestigial body parts when you get goosebumps . when we ’ re cold , tiny muscles attached to our body hairs contract , pulling the hair upright which causes the surrounding skin to form a bump .	what does the word `` vestigial '' mean with regard to the physical traits described in this video ?	what does the word `` vestigial '' mean with regard to the physical traits described in this video ?
so this is their left ear subconsciously trying ( and failing ) to pivot toward the sound . you can see another futile effort by our vestigial body parts when you get goosebumps . when we ’ re cold , tiny muscles attached to our body hairs contract , pulling the hair upright which causes the surrounding skin to form a bump .	why do we sometimes get goosebumps when we listen to music ?	why do we sometimes get goosebumps when we listen to music ?
but those are just the physical symptoms . toxoplasma also nestles into our brains and meddles with our behavior behind the scenes . to understand why , let 's take a look at the parasite 's life cycle . while the parasite can multiply in practically any host , it can only reproduce sexually in the intestines of cats . the offspring , called oocysts , are shed in the cat 's feces .	toxoplasma is one example of a parasite that can manipulate the behavior of its host to reproduce and therefore increase its own survival . another parasite that can manipulate host behavior is plasmodium , the causative agent of malaria . when mosquitoes are infected with plasmodium , they bite more often and for longer than mosquitoes that are not infected . provide a hypothesis for how this altered behavior helps the parasite .	toxoplasma is one example of a parasite that can manipulate the behavior of its host to reproduce and therefore increase its own survival . another parasite that can manipulate host behavior is plasmodium , the causative agent of malaria . when mosquitoes are infected with plasmodium , they bite more often and for longer than mosquitoes that are not infected . provide a hypothesis for how this altered behavior helps the parasite .
or public enemy number one ? historical figures are often controversial , but few were as deified or vilified in their lifetime as the seventh president of the united states . this is history vs. andrew jackson . `` order , order , hm , uh , what were we ... ah yes , mr. jackson !	can you think of any other historical figures in american history who are considered controversial ? who are they , and where does the controversy lie ?	can you think of any other historical figures in american history who are considered controversial ? who are they , and where does the controversy lie ?
his paintings are themselves signatures of his mind . in theory , anyone could make a painting that is an imprint of their mind . so why is pollock so special ? well , it 's important to remember that while anyone could have done what he did , he and the rest of the new york school were the ones who actually did it .	what innovations did pollock bring to painting ?	what innovations did pollock bring to painting ?
the vikings accepted , sending a prince named rurik and his two brothers to rule . with rurik 's son , oleg , expanding his realm into the south , and moving the capitol to kiev , a former outpost of the khazar empire , the kievan rus was born , `` rus '' most likely deriving from an old norse word for `` the men who row . '' the new princedom had complex relations with its neighbors , alternating between alliance and warfare with the khazar and byzantine empires , as well as neighboring tribes .	according to the likeliest theory , from which language does the word 'rus ' originate ?	according to the likeliest theory , from which language does the word 'rus ' originate ?
now , the next thing i 'm going to do is take these magnets and glue it in the center of this dot . hot glue , by the way , a hot glue gun , it 's the greatest maker toy you can possibly have . i do n't care what the 3-d prototype guys say , i love my hot glue gun !	according to gurstelle , what is the greatest maker toy you can possibly own ?	according to gurstelle , what is the greatest maker toy you can possibly own ?
metaphors are art , not science , but they can still feel right or wrong . a metaphor that is n't good leaves you confused . you know what it means to feel like a square wheel , but not what it 's like to be tired as a whale .	a metaphor is	a metaphor is
let 's start with the most familiar , placental mammals . this group includes humans , cats , dogs , giraffes , and even the blue whale , the biggest animal on earth . its placenta , a solid disk of blood-rich tissue , attaches to the wall of the uterus to support the developing embryo .	human , cats , dogs and whales are all considered :	human , cats , dogs and whales are all considered :
steven : i think it is a prank but it 's also very close to some important art that had been made earlier in the century . he had license to do that because of somebody named marcel duchamp . in fact , warhol had in a sense the same kind of license to not focus on the making of something , not focus on the brushwork , not focus on the composition , not focus on the color , but focus on the refocusing of ideas .	who was marcel duchamp and how did he pave the way for andy warhol ?	who was marcel duchamp and how did he pave the way for andy warhol ?
although everyone could feel their own heart beating , it was n't always clear what each thump was achieving . now we know that the heart pumps blood . but that fact was n't always obvious , because if a heart was exposed or taken out , the body would perish quickly .	the left ventricle pumps blood through the aorta to the body . the right ventricle pumps blood through the pulmonary artery to ________ .	the left ventricle pumps blood through the aorta to the body . the right ventricle pumps blood through the pulmonary artery to ________ .
although everyone could feel their own heart beating , it was n't always clear what each thump was achieving . now we know that the heart pumps blood . but that fact was n't always obvious , because if a heart was exposed or taken out , the body would perish quickly .	as arteries carry blood away from the heart , they branch and become thinner and thinner until they become microscopic capillaries . these capillaries then join together and thicken as they become the veins that carry the blood back to the heart . the arteries have smooth walls , but the veins have valves that stop the blood from moving backwards . why do veins need valves , when arteries don ’ t ? what has that to do with capillaries ?	as arteries carry blood away from the heart , they branch and become thinner and thinner until they become microscopic capillaries . these capillaries then join together and thicken as they become the veins that carry the blood back to the heart . the arteries have smooth walls , but the veins have valves that stop the blood from moving backwards . why do veins need valves , when arteries don ’ t ? what has that to do with capillaries ?
in 1347 , the plague reached the mediterranean , and by 1400 , it had killed in excess of 34 million europeans , earning it the title , the great mortality . it was later historians who called it the black death . however , by far the greatest pandemic killer is influenza .	how many europeans succumbed to the black death ?	how many europeans succumbed to the black death ?
his climb led to more excursions , with safety equipment , thank goodness , up other ancient redwoods as he mapped and measured the architecture of branches and additional trunks in the canopy of an entire grove . stephen became an expert in the ecology of the tallest trees on earth and the rich diversity of life in their crowns , aerial ecosystems no one had imagined . there are ferns , fungi and epiphytic trees normally found at ground level like douglas firs , hemlocks and tan oaks whose roots had taken hold in the rich wet soil mats .	the rich diversity of life found in the redwood crowns included :	the rich diversity of life found in the redwood crowns included :
but there were glitches . only 10 of the 13 states voted . rhode island and north carolina had n't ratified the constitution and could n't vote . new york missed the deadline for naming its electors , and also was not counted .	in 1789 , the states decided who could vote . women could vote in :	in 1789 , the states decided who could vote . women could vote in :
it 's also quite useful , especially when it comes to probability and calculations in the domain of combinatorics . say you want to have five children , and would like to know the probability of having your dream family of three girls and two boys . in the binomial expansion , that corresponds to girl plus boy to the fifth power .	in tossing a coin three times , ( h+t ) ^3 , the probability of having two heads and one tail is _____ .	in tossing a coin three times , ( h+t ) ^3 , the probability of having two heads and one tail is _____ .
stiff legged , with long , lumbering steps , very slow and awkward . almost like what you 'd see in parkinson 's disease . maybe something 's wrong with his basal ganglia ?	parkinson ’ s disease happens because cells that produce what chemical die off ?	parkinson ’ s disease happens because cells that produce what chemical die off ?
stiff legged , with long , lumbering steps , very slow and awkward . almost like what you 'd see in parkinson 's disease . maybe something 's wrong with his basal ganglia ?	motor symptoms of parkinson ’ s disease include :	motor symptoms of parkinson ’ s disease include :
the court issues binding decisions that each member state must comply with . human rights law is constantly evolving as are our views and definitions of what the basic human rights should be . for example , how basic or important is the right to democracy or to development ?	human rights are universal and apply to everybody no matter where they live .	human rights are universal and apply to everybody no matter where they live .
the court issues binding decisions that each member state must comply with . human rights law is constantly evolving as are our views and definitions of what the basic human rights should be . for example , how basic or important is the right to democracy or to development ?	all these are considered universal human rights except :	all these are considered universal human rights except :
the court issues binding decisions that each member state must comply with . human rights law is constantly evolving as are our views and definitions of what the basic human rights should be . for example , how basic or important is the right to democracy or to development ?	what are some of the limitations of the concept of human rights ?	what are some of the limitations of the concept of human rights ?
meanwhile , the nearest star beyond our own sun is proxima centauri , 4.24 light years away . our milky way is on the order of 100,000 light years across . the nearest galaxy to our own , andromeda , is about 2.5 million light years away space is mind-blowingly vast . but wait , how do we know how far away stars and galaxies are ?	even if we have rockets that can travel with the speed of light , roughly how many years would it take for an astronaut to travel from the milky way to its closest galaxy – the andromeda galaxy ?	even if we have rockets that can travel with the speed of light , roughly how many years would it take for an astronaut to travel from the milky way to its closest galaxy – the andromeda galaxy ?
they all have functions , like helping cells adhere to their neighbors or binding to nutrients the cell will need . animal and plant cells have cell membranes . only plant cells have a cell wall , which is made of rigid cellulose that gives the plant structure . the virus cell that was sneezed into your lungs is sneaky . pretending to be a friend , it attaches to a projection on the cell membrane , and the cell brings it through the cell membrane and inside . when the virus gets through , the cell recognizes its mistake .	once a protein is made , it needs to be able to leave the cell . the structure that packages the protein in a vesicle and directs it to the cell membrane is known as the :	once a protein is made , it needs to be able to leave the cell . the structure that packages the protein in a vesicle and directs it to the cell membrane is known as the :
in fact , our last common ancestor was a simple worm-like creature that lived more than 500 million years ago . so how did we end up with such similar brain structures when our evolution took almost entirely different paths ? scientists call this phenomenon convergent evolution . it 's the same principle behind birds , bats , and bees separately evolving wings .	what do we call the independent evolution of similar features ( such as sense of smell ) in species of different origin ?	what do we call the independent evolution of similar features ( such as sense of smell ) in species of different origin ?
so it 's possessive , it 's often followed by s 's , and it 's sometimes tricky when it comes to its usage . it 's the apostrophe .	when in doubt as a writer of english , it 's best to leave out an apostrophe . why ?	when in doubt as a writer of english , it 's best to leave out an apostrophe . why ?
it also makes vitamin d and substances that help digestion . but one of its most vital products is bile . like an eco-friendly treatment plant , the liver uses cells called hepatocytes to convert toxic waste products into this bitter greenish liquid .	explain why bile is such a useful product .	explain why bile is such a useful product .
there 's body language and vocal tone , changes in heart rate , complexion , and skin temperature , or even word frequency and sentence structure in our writing . you might think that training neural networks to recognize these would be a long and complicated task until you realize just how much data is out there , and how quickly modern computers can process it . from social media posts , uploaded photos and videos , and phone recordings , to heat-sensitive security cameras and wearables that monitor physiological signs , the big question is not how to collect enough data , but what we 're going to do with it .	a major problem for self-driving cars would be :	a major problem for self-driving cars would be :
there 's body language and vocal tone , changes in heart rate , complexion , and skin temperature , or even word frequency and sentence structure in our writing . you might think that training neural networks to recognize these would be a long and complicated task until you realize just how much data is out there , and how quickly modern computers can process it . from social media posts , uploaded photos and videos , and phone recordings , to heat-sensitive security cameras and wearables that monitor physiological signs , the big question is not how to collect enough data , but what we 're going to do with it .	why are neural networks so dependent on lots of data , processing power , and storage in order to be trained successfully ?	why are neural networks so dependent on lots of data , processing power , and storage in order to be trained successfully ?
at a higher pressure under the sea , the nitrogen from the air in a scuba tank diffuses into a diver 's tissues in greater concentrations than it would on land . if the diver ascends too quickly , this built up nitrogen can come out of solution and form microbubbles in her tissues , blood and joints , causing decompression sickness , aka the bends . this is similar to the fizz of carbon dioxide coming out of your soda .	what causes 'the bends ' by forming microbubbles in tissues , blood and joints ?	what causes 'the bends ' by forming microbubbles in tissues , blood and joints ?
at a higher pressure under the sea , the nitrogen from the air in a scuba tank diffuses into a diver 's tissues in greater concentrations than it would on land . if the diver ascends too quickly , this built up nitrogen can come out of solution and form microbubbles in her tissues , blood and joints , causing decompression sickness , aka the bends . this is similar to the fizz of carbon dioxide coming out of your soda .	how can a diver avoid getting decompression sickness ?	how can a diver avoid getting decompression sickness ?
why is that ? what is the difference between a theory and a law , and is one better ? scientific laws and theories have different jobs to do .	what is the difference between a law about gravity and a theory about gravity ?	what is the difference between a law about gravity and a theory about gravity ?
that 's where the brain attaches meaning to speech sounds . damage to wernicke 's area impairs the brain 's ability to comprehend language . aphasia is caused by injury to one or both of these specialized language areas .	severe difficulty comprehending language might result if there is damage to :	severe difficulty comprehending language might result if there is damage to :
imagine this conversation : `` pardon me , sir . do you have the time ? '' `` why yes , which do you need ? it 's 12:13 local time and 12:16 railway time . '' ultimately , the logic of keeping a standard time prevailed , and the united states government made time zones a matter of law with the standard time act of march 19 , 1918 .	what innovations were sparked because of technological advances ( for instance , the trains sparked a need for standardized time ) ?	what innovations were sparked because of technological advances ( for instance , the trains sparked a need for standardized time ) ?
scientists believe that this chameleon effect is possible because of a special set of neurons known as mirror neurons . mirror neurons are a type of brain cell that responds equally when we perform an action as when we see someone else perform the same action . these neurons are important for learning and self-awareness .	what specific brain cell responds equally when we perform an action as when we see someone else perform the same action ?	what specific brain cell responds equally when we perform an action as when we see someone else perform the same action ?
right now , at this very moment , some people , women and girls in particular , walk hours and miles per day to get fresh water , and even then , it may not be clean . every 15 seconds , a child dies due to water-born diseases . this is tragic !	every 15 seconds , a child dies due to water borne illness .	every 15 seconds , a child dies due to water borne illness .
undoubtedly , over the coming centuries , some of the coastal areas that we live in today will eventually be claimed by the water , too - cities like venice , new orleans , amsterdam , miami , and tokyo . imagine what future civilizations will learn about us as they swim around the ancient ruins of the cities that we live in today .	what can sunken cities teach us about our cities today ?	what can sunken cities teach us about our cities today ?
earth 's average surface temperature has warmed by .8 celsius since 1750 . when carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere have doubled , which is expected before the end of the 21st century , researchers project global temperatures will have risen by 1.5 to 4.5 degrees celsius . if the increase is near the low end , 1.5 celsius , then we 're already halfway there , and we should be more able to adapt with some regions becoming drier and less productive , but others becoming warmer , wetter and more productive .	what is the current expected increase of global mean temperature for a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere , which is expected to occur before the end of the 21st century ?	what is the current expected increase of global mean temperature for a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere , which is expected to occur before the end of the 21st century ?
consider the classic white t-shirt . annually , we sell and buy two billion t-shirts globally , making it one of the most common garments in the world .	create a list of all the countries that may be involved in creating the t-shirt you might be wearing today .	create a list of all the countries that may be involved in creating the t-shirt you might be wearing today .
in this respect , pregnancy is awe-inspiring , but that 's only half the story . the other half reveals that pregnancy places a mother and her child at odds . as for all living creatures , the human body evolved to promote the spread of its genes .	pregnancy places a mother and child at odds . why is this the case ?	pregnancy places a mother and child at odds . why is this the case ?
each year in the united states , players of sports and recreational activities receive between 2.5 and 4 million concussions . how dangerous are all those concussions ?	what is a sub-concussive blow ?	what is a sub-concussive blow ?
and you can trade it across all the social media , through facebook , through twitter , through youtube , through reddit , through tumblr , through whatever else you can think of . and you can make that change . you can take what you believe in and turn it into a cause and change it .	how many social networking sites are available to try and start change in america ?	how many social networking sites are available to try and start change in america ?
until then , chocolate only existed in mesoamerica in a form quite different from what we know . as far back as 1900 bce , the people of that region had learned to prepare the beans of the native cacao tree . the earliest records tell us the beans were ground and mixed with cornmeal and chili peppers to create a drink - not a relaxing cup of hot cocoa , but a bitter , invigorating concoction frothing with foam .	the aztec people use cacao beans for :	the aztec people use cacao beans for :
not really , that had already been done too . so what was mendeleev 's genius ? let 's look at one of the first versions of the periodic table from around 1870 .	what did dmitri mendeleev do that set him apart ?	what did dmitri mendeleev do that set him apart ?
now , your worms might be vermin , but they need a comfortable space to live and work : some bedding materials , either shredded paper or cardboard , some moisture , and , of course , food , mainly , your leftovers , slightly decomposed table scraps . the worms break down food waste and other organic matter into castings , a fancy synonym for worm poop . their excrement is absolutely teeming with microbes , which continue the decomposition process , making all those once-wasted nutrients available again as fertilizer .	what is the term used to describe the conversion of organic materials into valuable worm castings ?	what is the term used to describe the conversion of organic materials into valuable worm castings ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby mysteries of vernacular : venom , the poisonous fluid secreted by animals , like snakes and scorpions , typically transmitted by bite or sting . as vile as the word is now , the history of venom begins with the pleasant indo-european root wen , which meant to desire or strive for .	when would a venomous animal use its poison ?	when would a venomous animal use its poison ?
even your lungs are different . the left one has two lobes , and the right one has three . the two sides of your brain look similar , but function differently .	what is chirality in biology and medicine ? explain with at least three examples .	what is chirality in biology and medicine ? explain with at least three examples .
while women who were told there was no difference , scored the same . this phenomenom is known as the stereotype threat . even google search data shows that parents 2.5 times more likely to search is my son gifted than is my daughter gifted ?	briefly describe the stereotype threat phenomenon .	briefly describe the stereotype threat phenomenon .
so what are these unwanted souvenirs and why do we keep them for so long after that unintended vacation to the emergency room ? the most common place we see scars are on our skin , a patch that looks slightly different from the normal skin around it . often , this is considered an unfortunate disfigurement , while other times , deliberate scarification has been used in both traditional and modern cultures , to mark a rite of passage or simply for aesthetic decoration .	human branding , a process in which a pattern is burnt onto the skin resulting in the formation of a scar , is practiced by different cultures to mark commemorative events through scaring . what could be the potential risks associated with these traditions ?	human branding , a process in which a pattern is burnt onto the skin resulting in the formation of a scar , is practiced by different cultures to mark commemorative events through scaring . what could be the potential risks associated with these traditions ?
you realize that the only lockers touched twice have to be prime numbers since each only has two factors : 1 and itself . so the code is 2-3-5-7-11 . the lawyer brings you to the safe , and you claim your inheritance .	why is the code to the safe 2-3-5-7-11 ?	why is the code to the safe 2-3-5-7-11 ?
given our previous estimate of 10 to the fourth pianos in chicago , and the estimate that each piano tuner can tune 10 to the second pianos each year , we can say that there are approximately 10 to the second piano tuners in chicago . now , i know what you must be thinking : how can all of these estimates produce a reasonable answer ? well , it 's rather simple .	when you use fermi problems , you are depending on a large number of estimates to produce a reasonable answer . how is this possible ?	when you use fermi problems , you are depending on a large number of estimates to produce a reasonable answer . how is this possible ?
they 're always falling towards the earth , but they 're always missing , and therefore , they 're falling all the time . they feel like they 're falling , so you just have to get over it . so technically , if you ran fast enough and tripped , you could miss the earth .	an orbiting astronaut would feel like they were :	an orbiting astronaut would feel like they were :
we see mistletoe as a festive decoration , but draped on tree boughs in the wild , it 's known as a partly parasitic plant . mistletoe relies on modified roots called haustoria that penetrate the tree bark and siphon off the water and minerals trees carry up their trunks to colonize nearby trees with its seeds , mistletoe depends on birds and other creatures to do the dispersing . birds that eat the mistletoe 's sticky white berries sometimes get rid of the gluey seeds by wiping them off onto tree bark . or with a bit of luck , they excrete the indigestible seed onto a tree where it germinates and starts to grow .	the mistletoe ’ s seeds are dispersed mainly by :	the mistletoe ’ s seeds are dispersed mainly by :
the `` aeneid , '' a 9,896 line poem , spans twelve separate sections , or books , the first six of which mirror the structure of the `` odyssey '' and the last six echo the `` iliad . '' also like the greek epics , the `` aeneid '' is written entirely in dactylic hexameter . in this meter , each line has six syllable groups called feet made up of dactyls which go long , short , short , and spondees which go long , long .	what sort of work is the `` aeneid '' ?	what sort of work is the `` aeneid '' ?
this apex predator , as well as its ecosystem , is unparalleled in the history of life on earth . all that 's left of these fearsome predators are fossils . about 93 million years ago , sea levels rose , submerging the kem kem region in a shallow sea .	which one of these countries is not a good place to hunt for mesozoic fossils from north africa ?	which one of these countries is not a good place to hunt for mesozoic fossils from north africa ?
we do have tests called gram stains that detect bacteria , but they ca n't recognize endotoxins which can be there even when bacteria are n't present . so scientists use an extract called lal produced from harvested horseshoe crab blood to test for endotoxins . they add lal to a medicine sample , and if gels form , bacterial endotoxins are present . today , the lal test is used so widely that millions of people who 've never seen a horseshoe crab have been protected by their blood .	lal reveals the presence of contaminants by :	lal reveals the presence of contaminants by :
so imagine a bullet fired from a gun , and that bullet goes on at a constant speed in a perfectly straight line . that would be like a gas molecule . second , gases are so small , they occupy no volume on their own .	most hot air balloons are round . yes , you can have some other shapes like this one , but its shape is still rounded . using the assumptions , explain why a square hot air balloon would be hard to make .	most hot air balloons are round . yes , you can have some other shapes like this one , but its shape is still rounded . using the assumptions , explain why a square hot air balloon would be hard to make .
what thermal energy does to the eggs ' molecules , mechanical energy can undo . eggs are mostly made of water and proteins . the proteins start off folded up into intricate shapes , held together by weak chemical bonds .	why would large proteins be harder to untangle and refold than smaller ones ?	why would large proteins be harder to untangle and refold than smaller ones ?
and sure enough , he cracked it . mass causes spacetime to curve ! the natural motion of things is to follow the simplest path through spacetime .	what does mass do to spacetime ?	what does mass do to spacetime ?
some of the many asthma triggers include tobacco smoke , pollen , dust , fragrances , exercise , cold weather , stress , and even the common cold . when people with asthma are exposed to these triggers , an asthma attack , or exacerbation , can occur . but how exactly do such everyday factors lead to an asthma attack ?	what are the changes that occur in the respiratory system during an asthma attack ? be sure to include in your explanation how triggers are involved in these changes .	what are the changes that occur in the respiratory system during an asthma attack ? be sure to include in your explanation how triggers are involved in these changes .
to be entertained , to find out who done it , to travel to strange , new planets , to be scared , to laugh , to cry , to think , to feel , to be so absorbed that for a while we forget where we are . so , how about writing fiction ? how do you suck your readers into your stories ?	which of the following purposes does fiction serve ?	which of the following purposes does fiction serve ?
first it collects data about your answers , then it compares your choices and preferences to other people 's in simple , mathematical ways . this , the ability to take real-world phenomena and make them something a microchip can understand , is , i think , the most important skill anyone can have these days . like you use sentences to tell a story to a person , you use algorithms to tell a story to a computer .	what does christian rudder say is the most important skill a person can have these days ?	what does christian rudder say is the most important skill a person can have these days ?
first it collects data about your answers , then it compares your choices and preferences to other people 's in simple , mathematical ways . this , the ability to take real-world phenomena and make them something a microchip can understand , is , i think , the most important skill anyone can have these days . like you use sentences to tell a story to a person , you use algorithms to tell a story to a computer .	why do you think online dating is so successful these days ? tell about any experiences you may have had .	why do you think online dating is so successful these days ? tell about any experiences you may have had .
and the cockroach starts shaking it off , `` get away from me ! '' the wasp very quickly starts stinging the cockroach . all of a sudden , the cockroach ca n't move , for about a minute . and then it recovers and stands up .	how does the wasp make the cockroach move ?	how does the wasp make the cockroach move ?
and by marrying elizabeth of york , elder sister of the disappeared princes , the newly crowned henry vii joined the two roses , finally ending nearly a century of war . we often think of historical wars as decisive conflicts with clearly defined winners and losers . but the wars of the roses , like the fiction they inspired , show us that victories can be uncertain , alliances unstable , and even the power of kings as fleeting as the seasons .	which king was the common ancestor of all the factions involved in the wars ?	which king was the common ancestor of all the factions involved in the wars ?
and by marrying elizabeth of york , elder sister of the disappeared princes , the newly crowned henry vii joined the two roses , finally ending nearly a century of war . we often think of historical wars as decisive conflicts with clearly defined winners and losers . but the wars of the roses , like the fiction they inspired , show us that victories can be uncertain , alliances unstable , and even the power of kings as fleeting as the seasons .	why were they called the wars of the roses ?	why were they called the wars of the roses ?
the positions of these symbols indicate different powers of ten , starting on the right and increasing as we move left . for example , the number 316 reads as 6x10^0 plus 1x10^1 plus 3x10^2 . a key breakthrough of this system , which was also independently developed by the mayans , was the number zero .	let ’ s choose a number – say 253 ( in base 10 ) . what would you do to write it in base 2 ( when you only have two symbols , 0 and 1 ) ? or in base 5 ( five symbols : 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 ) ?	let ’ s choose a number – say 253 ( in base 10 ) . what would you do to write it in base 2 ( when you only have two symbols , 0 and 1 ) ? or in base 5 ( five symbols : 0 , 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 ) ?
and then those cells invented sex , and then they invented the first bodies with each cell doing a different job , some smelling , some moving , some eating . and the job of sex went to a special cell called the gamete . and those bodies became giant .	what is a gamete ?	what is a gamete ?
and then those cells invented sex , and then they invented the first bodies with each cell doing a different job , some smelling , some moving , some eating . and the job of sex went to a special cell called the gamete . and those bodies became giant .	according to bohannon , sex evolved because of the special need for humans to reproduce .	according to bohannon , sex evolved because of the special need for humans to reproduce .
the electric field tugs the molten metal upwards , while surface tension pulls it back , causing the indium to deform into a cone . the small radius of the tips of the needles makes it possible for the electric field to overcome the surface tension , and when that happens , positively charged ions shoot off at speeds of tens of kilometers per second . that stream of ions propels the spacecraft in the opposite direction , thanks to newton 's third law .	how fast do the charged ions shoot out of the emitters ?	how fast do the charged ions shoot out of the emitters ?
thanks to the phenomenon of neuroplasticity , new synaptic buds are formed , allowing new connections between neurons , and strengthening the neural network where the information will be returned as long-term memory . so why do we remember some things and not others ? well , there are a few ways to influence the extent and effectiveness of memory retention .	everybody can learn and remember , but :	everybody can learn and remember , but :
when the atoms in the atmosphere are contacted by the particles , they get excited and emit photons . photons are small bursts of energy in the form of light . the colors that appear in the sky depend on the wavelength of the atom 's photon .	what are small bursts of energy in the form of light ?	what are small bursts of energy in the form of light ?
this pattern is known as consonance , which sounds naturally pleasant to our ears . but perhaps equally captivating is beethoven 's use of dissonance . take a look at measures 52 through 54 , which feature triplets containing the notes b and c. as their sine graphs show , the waves are largely out of sync , matching up rarely , if at all .	how is dissonance used in beethoven ’ s `` moonlight sonata '' ?	how is dissonance used in beethoven ’ s `` moonlight sonata '' ?
and this got me thinking , `` god , i wish there was a way i could change this , that i could have my voice heard by hasbro , so i could ask them and tell them what they were doing wrong and ask them to change it . '' and that got me thinking about a website that i had learned about a few months prior called change.org . change.org is an online petition-sharing platform , where you can create a petition and share it across all these social media networks , through facebook , through twitter , through youtube , through reddit , through tumblr , through whatever you can think of . and so , i created a petition , along with a youtube video that i added to the petition , basically asking hasbro to change the way that they marketed it , in featuring boys in the commercials and on the boxes , and most of all creating them in less gender-specific colors . so , this petititon started to take off , like humongously fast , you have no idea .	when starting a petition to create change , will everyone agree with you ?	when starting a petition to create change , will everyone agree with you ?
this sort of cultural transmission even extends to tool use . one group of bottlenose dolphins off the australian coast nicknamed the dolphin sponge club , has learned how to cover their rostrums with sponges when rooting in sharp corals , passing the knowledge from mother to daughter . dolphins have even demonstrated language comprehension .	the dolphin sponge club :	the dolphin sponge club :
so this is mercury . it ’ s a liquid metal , it is one of the , well , one liquid metal at this temperature . there are a couple of liquid metals in a little bit more exotic places in the world like spain or perhaps africa .	as pete showed at the beginning of the video , mercury is a liquid metal at room temperature . what is its melting point at atmospheric pressure ?	as pete showed at the beginning of the video , mercury is a liquid metal at room temperature . what is its melting point at atmospheric pressure ?
every once in a while , something goes wrong during a stem cell 's specialization process and harmful mutations occur in the cell 's dna . cells with compromised dna are supposed to self-destruct , but some damaged cells ignore this order , replicating uncontrollably , even as they lose their original function . these are what we know as cancer cells .	cells with heavily damaged dna :	cells with heavily damaged dna :
we live in a three-dimensional world where everything has length , width , and height . but what if our world were two-dimensional ?	the area of a square is length x width . the volume of a cube is length x width x height . what do you think the hypervolume of a hypercube is ? why ?	the area of a square is length x width . the volume of a cube is length x width x height . what do you think the hypervolume of a hypercube is ? why ?
of particular interest are two conflicting theories . stephen paget , an english surgeon , came up with the seed and soil theory of metastasis . the seed and soil theory stated that cancer cells die easily in the wrong microenvironment , hence they only metastasize to a location with similar characteristics .	stephen paget , an english neurosurgeon , was famous for which of the theories for metastasis ?	stephen paget , an english neurosurgeon , was famous for which of the theories for metastasis ?
of particular interest are two conflicting theories . stephen paget , an english surgeon , came up with the seed and soil theory of metastasis . the seed and soil theory stated that cancer cells die easily in the wrong microenvironment , hence they only metastasize to a location with similar characteristics .	which theory is more popularly used to explain metastasis today ? give some examples of metastatic cancers that spread according to each theory .	which theory is more popularly used to explain metastasis today ? give some examples of metastatic cancers that spread according to each theory .
not only does the infinite series sum to a finite answer , but that finite answer is the same one that common sense tells us is true . zeno 's journey takes one hour .	zeno of elea was :	zeno of elea was :
it has contributed to the world concepts such as yoga , ayurveda , spicy chicken tikka , and vedic math . vedic math is one of the world 's easiest and simplest way to do math . we are going to combine together and do some number crunching today .	what is not part of the principle behind vedic math ?	what is not part of the principle behind vedic math ?
it has contributed to the world concepts such as yoga , ayurveda , spicy chicken tikka , and vedic math . vedic math is one of the world 's easiest and simplest way to do math . we are going to combine together and do some number crunching today .	using vedic math , what do you get when you square the number 105 ?	using vedic math , what do you get when you square the number 105 ?
it has contributed to the world concepts such as yoga , ayurveda , spicy chicken tikka , and vedic math . vedic math is one of the world 's easiest and simplest way to do math . we are going to combine together and do some number crunching today .	why do you enjoy math ? if you do n't , explain why .	why do you enjoy math ? if you do n't , explain why .
and ketchup is actually non-newtonian in two different ways . way number one : the harder you push , the thinner ketchup seems to get . below a certain pushing force , ketchup basically behaves like a solid .	why does ketchup get thinner the longer you shake the bottle ?	why does ketchup get thinner the longer you shake the bottle ?
we can start on any note , but let 's use c since it 's at the top . the resulting chord is called a diminished seventh chord . now this chord is a group whose elements are these four notes .	a ( n ) _____ chord is a chord that has been rearranged but contains the same notes	a ( n ) _____ chord is a chord that has been rearranged but contains the same notes
we can start on any note , but let 's use c since it 's at the top . the resulting chord is called a diminished seventh chord . now this chord is a group whose elements are these four notes .	the diminished seventh chord is a group because of its symmetry and because of following the group axioms . are there any other chords in music that satisfy the same axioms ?	the diminished seventh chord is a group because of its symmetry and because of following the group axioms . are there any other chords in music that satisfy the same axioms ?
have you ever seen anyone lose their cool ? ultimately , if we 're breathing under stress over long periods of time , there are consequences . when the cells of a body are n't getting the oxygen they need , the nutrients available to the body decrease and toxins build up in the blood .	what is yoga , and why is it so popular for people who are trying to lower their stress levels and get healthy ? how do the exercises used in yoga affect both the body and mind at the same time ? why do people feel a sense of calmness when they practice breathing techniques and yoga ?	what is yoga , and why is it so popular for people who are trying to lower their stress levels and get healthy ? how do the exercises used in yoga affect both the body and mind at the same time ? why do people feel a sense of calmness when they practice breathing techniques and yoga ?
circuits can be combined to perform complex operations , like addition and subtraction . and computer programs consist of instructions for electronically performing these operations . this kind of system needs a reliable and accurate method for controlling electric current .	based on what you have learned , how does a computer add two numbers ?	based on what you have learned , how does a computer add two numbers ?
through this unprecedented worldwide effort , in which even rival superpowers cooperated , smallpox was finally declared eradicated in 1980 , saving approximately 40 million lives over the following two decades . there were several factors that made smallpox an ideal candidate for eradication . first , humans are essential to the smallpox lifecycle , so breaking the chain of human to human transmission causes the virus to die out .	which characteristic made smallpox an ideal candidate for eradication ?	which characteristic made smallpox an ideal candidate for eradication ?
each fret divides the string 's remaining length by 2^ ( 1/12 ) , making the frequencies increase by half steps . fretless instruments , like violins , make it easier to produce the infinite frequencies between each note , but add to the challenge of playing intune . the number of strings and their tuning are custom tailored to the chords we like to play and the physiology of our hands .	why can you distinguish between instruments even when they are playing the same note ?	why can you distinguish between instruments even when they are playing the same note ?
each fret divides the string 's remaining length by 2^ ( 1/12 ) , making the frequencies increase by half steps . fretless instruments , like violins , make it easier to produce the infinite frequencies between each note , but add to the challenge of playing intune . the number of strings and their tuning are custom tailored to the chords we like to play and the physiology of our hands .	does the sound of an engine or a breaking glass have a particular note or can only tuned musical instruments produce particular notes ?	does the sound of an engine or a breaking glass have a particular note or can only tuned musical instruments produce particular notes ?
would it be `` the robinsons ' robots , '' or `` the robinsons 's robots '' ? the truth is , even grammar nerds disagree on the right thing to do . the use of 's after a proper noun ending in s is a style issue , not a hard and fast grammar rule .	why do even grammar nerds disagree on whether to use an apostrophe-s after a proper noun ending in `` s '' ?	why do even grammar nerds disagree on whether to use an apostrophe-s after a proper noun ending in `` s '' ?
when one realizes that life , even in the middle of so many contradictions , is a gift , that love is the source and the meaning of life , how can they withhold their urge to do good to another fellow being ? in order to do good , we need memory , we need courage and we need creativity . and i know that ted gathers many creative minds .	why does people francis believe we all need each other ?	why does people francis believe we all need each other ?
so the beans , via these bacteria , can absorb nitrogen into the atmosphere and turn it into a form that we can digest and we need that nitrogen so that we can make the proteins in our body . so without molybdenum nothing could live .	where in your body can you find molybdenum ?	where in your body can you find molybdenum ?
so the beans , via these bacteria , can absorb nitrogen into the atmosphere and turn it into a form that we can digest and we need that nitrogen so that we can make the proteins in our body . so without molybdenum nothing could live .	molybdenum has a high melting point , but this is not the highest in the periodic table . what is the melting point of molybdenum ?	molybdenum has a high melting point , but this is not the highest in the periodic table . what is the melting point of molybdenum ?
so the beans , via these bacteria , can absorb nitrogen into the atmosphere and turn it into a form that we can digest and we need that nitrogen so that we can make the proteins in our body . so without molybdenum nothing could live .	why is the artificially produced radioactive isotope molybdenum-99 used in medicine ?	why is the artificially produced radioactive isotope molybdenum-99 used in medicine ?
so the beans , via these bacteria , can absorb nitrogen into the atmosphere and turn it into a form that we can digest and we need that nitrogen so that we can make the proteins in our body . so without molybdenum nothing could live .	which kind of bond between two molybdenum atoms is found in the molecule mo2cl84- ?	which kind of bond between two molybdenum atoms is found in the molecule mo2cl84- ?
standard candles are objects whose intrinsic brightness , or luminosity , we know really well . for example , if you know how bright your light bulb is , and you ask your friend to hold the light bulb and walk away from you , you know that the amount of light you receive from your friend will decrease by the distance squared . so by comparing the amount of light you receive to the intrinsic brightness of the light bulb , you can then tell how far away your friend is . in astronomy , our light bulb turns out to be a special type of star called a cepheid variable . these stars are internally unstable , like a constantly inflating and deflating balloon .	consider you are x units in distance from a light source . you receive y unit of light per unit time . you have to be _____ x units in distance from the light source in order to receive 4y unit of light per unit time .	consider you are x units in distance from a light source . you receive y unit of light per unit time . you have to be _____ x units in distance from the light source in order to receive 4y unit of light per unit time .
and so began what became known at the time as the great war ; the war to end all wars ! a new form of warfare evolved as these fully industrialized armies with engines , machine guns , airplanes and new chemical gas weapons fought against each other . it was the dawn of modern warfare .	list two new weapons , or technologies that were used during wwi .	list two new weapons , or technologies that were used during wwi .
there 's just one problem . they do n't work . ideas for perpetual motion machines all violate one or more fundamental laws of thermodynamics , the branch of physics that describes the relationship between different forms of energy .	why wo n't the capillary bowl work ?	why wo n't the capillary bowl work ?
but on sat testing in the u.s. men scored 33 points higher in math and science . other tests like the program for international student assessment showed both sexes performing equally in several countries with girls performing better in some like iceland suggesting cultural and environmental differences and not necessarily biological differences at play . but research has found that stereotypes about womens performance actually impact how well they do .	why might women have performed better than men on the program for international student assessment in iceland ?	why might women have performed better than men on the program for international student assessment in iceland ?
but , global fresh water scarcity neither starts nor ends in your shower . globally , domestic use of fresh water accounts for only 8 % of consumption , 8 % ! ! compare that to the 70 % that goes to agriculture and the 22 % that goes to industrial uses .	globally , domestic water use accounts for what percentage of consumption ?	globally , domestic water use accounts for what percentage of consumption ?
magnesium is one of the lightest elements . it ’ s right at the beginning of the period table and , in fact , it ’ s the first of the light metals that you can actually use . lithium and sodium react violently with water so you can ’ t really use them as a metal and beryllium is fantastically poisonous so unless you are using it in the lab where you can be sure that nobody is going to touch it , it ’ s useless , so magnesium is the lightest metal you can use .	why did the professor say that magnesium is the first of the light metals you can actually use ? what is the problem with the three lighter ones ?	why did the professor say that magnesium is the first of the light metals you can actually use ? what is the problem with the three lighter ones ?
in response , thousands of outraged parisians joined with sympathetic soldiers to storm the bastille prison , a symbol of royal power and a large storehouse of weapons . the revolution had begun . as rebellion spread throughout the country , the feudal system was abolished .	in what ways was the third estate prevented from having power before the revolution ?	in what ways was the third estate prevented from having power before the revolution ?
instead , by allowing individuals to remember personally meaningful and rewarding experiences they shared with others , nostalgia can boost psychological well-being . studies have shown that inducing nostalgia in people can help increase their feelings of self-esteem and social belonging , encourage psychological growth , and even make them act more charitably . so rather than being a cause of mental distress , nostalgia can be a restorative way of coping with it .	nostalgia has been shown to increase self-esteem , feelings of belongingness , and perceptions of meaning in life . how might nostalgia be used to help people find the motivation to take on new challenges and goals ?	nostalgia has been shown to increase self-esteem , feelings of belongingness , and perceptions of meaning in life . how might nostalgia be used to help people find the motivation to take on new challenges and goals ?
microscopic creatures inhabit a world alien to us , where making it through an inch of water is an incredible endeavor . but why does size matter so much for a swimmer ? what makes the world of a sperm so fundamentally different from that of a sperm whale ?	let 's do a rough estimate . people are about 1 meter in size , and a fast swimmer can travel at about 1 meter per second . a small insect might be about 1 millimeter in size and travels at about 1 millimeter per second . how do their reynolds numbers compare ?	let 's do a rough estimate . people are about 1 meter in size , and a fast swimmer can travel at about 1 meter per second . a small insect might be about 1 millimeter in size and travels at about 1 millimeter per second . how do their reynolds numbers compare ?
microscopic creatures inhabit a world alien to us , where making it through an inch of water is an incredible endeavor . but why does size matter so much for a swimmer ? what makes the world of a sperm so fundamentally different from that of a sperm whale ?	if a human swimmer were to somehow shrink down to the size of a microbe , what difficulties would they face in getting around ? what strategies could this tiny swimmer adopt to swim more effectively ?	if a human swimmer were to somehow shrink down to the size of a microbe , what difficulties would they face in getting around ? what strategies could this tiny swimmer adopt to swim more effectively ?
push hard enough , and you 'll cross that threshold and the nociceptors fire , telling your body to stop doing whatever you 're doing . but the pain threshold is n't set in stone . certain chemicals can tune nociceptors , lowering their threshold for pain . when cells are damaged , they and other nearby cells start producing these tuning chemicals like crazy , lowering the nociceptors ' threshold to the point where just touch can cause pain . and this is where over-the-counter painkillers come in .	why do nociceptors cells have a threshold ( think about what would happen if they didn ’ t ) ? and why is that threshold changeable ? think about situations in which your body might want to “ turn up the pain volume ” ( or turn it down ) .	why do nociceptors cells have a threshold ( think about what would happen if they didn ’ t ) ? and why is that threshold changeable ? think about situations in which your body might want to “ turn up the pain volume ” ( or turn it down ) .
that 's called conservation of angular momentum . now , rotational inertia can be thought of as a body 's resistance to rotational motion . it increases when more mass is distributed further from the axis of rotation , and decreases when the mass is distributed closer to the axis of rotation . so as she brings her arms closer to her body , her rotational inertia shrinks .	how does distributing the mass closer or farther from the axis of rotation effect rotational inertia ?	how does distributing the mass closer or farther from the axis of rotation effect rotational inertia ?
what if you jumped ? would you stop falling ? would the elevator hit your head ? well , what 's pulling the elevator down ?	physics is a natural science that involves the study of matter and its motion through space and time , along with related concepts such as energy and force . more broadly , it is the general analysis of nature , conducted in order to understand how the universe behaves . along with `` would you weight less in an elevator , '' what are some other interesting questions that a physicist might study ?	physics is a natural science that involves the study of matter and its motion through space and time , along with related concepts such as energy and force . more broadly , it is the general analysis of nature , conducted in order to understand how the universe behaves . along with `` would you weight less in an elevator , '' what are some other interesting questions that a physicist might study ?
what if you jumped ? would you stop falling ? would the elevator hit your head ? well , what 's pulling the elevator down ?	do you think elevator physics would be the same on mars ? the moon ? why ?	do you think elevator physics would be the same on mars ? the moon ? why ?
when the heat from the sun melted the wax on his wings , icarus fell from the sky . just as daedalus had many times ignored the consequences of defying the natural laws of mortal men in the service of his ego , icarus was also carried away by his own hubris . in the end , both men paid for their departure from the path of moderation dearly , icarus with his life and daedalus with his regret .	based on the lesson , define hubris in your own words .	based on the lesson , define hubris in your own words .
these cameras sold by the millions under the tag line , `` you push the button , we do the rest . '' while eastman was largely responsible for making photography a universal pastime , even he could not have dreamed of the ways photography had since shaped the world . it 's now estimated that over 380 billion photographs are taken each year .	who is largely responsible for making photography a universal pastime ?	who is largely responsible for making photography a universal pastime ?
but the insult was n't limited to soldiers . yankee quickly came to mean new englander , and by the 1780s , it was used to look down upon any american . during the revolution , colonists co-opted yankee and transformed it into a mark of national honor .	how did the offending use of yankee spread so quickly ?	how did the offending use of yankee spread so quickly ?
there are other contraceptives that use multiple approaches at the same time . for example , many iuds , or intrauterine devices , contain synthetic hormones which suppress ovulation . some also contain copper , which disable sperm while also making egg implantation in the uterus difficult .	methods of contraception can be placed into how many categories according to their general action ?	methods of contraception can be placed into how many categories according to their general action ?
among the most important of these are white blood cells , known as macrophages , which devour bacteria and damage tissue through a process known as phagocytosis , in addition to producing growth factors to spur healing . and because these tiny soldiers need to travel through the blood to get to the wound site , the previously constricted blood vessels now expand in a process called vasodilation . about two to three days after the wound , the proliferative stage occurs , when fibroblast cells begin to enter the wound .	the following help in preventing further blood loss following a wound :	the following help in preventing further blood loss following a wound :
among the most important of these are white blood cells , known as macrophages , which devour bacteria and damage tissue through a process known as phagocytosis , in addition to producing growth factors to spur healing . and because these tiny soldiers need to travel through the blood to get to the wound site , the previously constricted blood vessels now expand in a process called vasodilation . about two to three days after the wound , the proliferative stage occurs , when fibroblast cells begin to enter the wound .	name the protein which helps prevent excessive blood loss from the wound .	name the protein which helps prevent excessive blood loss from the wound .
and this salute is learned at a very young age . now , ritual and bonding within the family also facilitates coordinated activities . so , here 's a young female whose calf has fallen into the trough and she does n't know what to do and she panics .	who is the one in charge of making decisions about safety within the family ?	who is the one in charge of making decisions about safety within the family ?
and this salute is learned at a very young age . now , ritual and bonding within the family also facilitates coordinated activities . so , here 's a young female whose calf has fallen into the trough and she does n't know what to do and she panics .	when elephant extended relatives greet , they have a ritual where one places their trunk in the other ’ s mouth as a form of greeting . they are also very vocal during greetings . do humans have similar greeting rituals ?	when elephant extended relatives greet , they have a ritual where one places their trunk in the other ’ s mouth as a form of greeting . they are also very vocal during greetings . do humans have similar greeting rituals ?
but where do all these discredited theories leave us ? what we now know is that life is not contained in some magical substance or spark , but within the ongoing biological processes themselves . and to understand these processes , we need to zoom down to the level of our individual cells .	how can one preserve cellular biological materials ?	how can one preserve cellular biological materials ?
i haven ’ t worked much with lanthanum but one of my students or a russian visitor did some rather interesting experiments with making a compound of lanthanum and copper , so-called lanthanum cuprate , which is quite an interesting catalyst . lanthanum ’ s got quite a few technological uses . it ’ s used in , of all things , lighting in hollywood studios . lanthanum can also be used in hydrogen storage though obviously the hydrogen economy is becoming a very important issue with the energy crisis and so on and so forth ; and it ’ s , in certain circumstances , it ’ s very effective as what we called a hydrogen sponge so it can suck up all of the hydrogen and then hopefully you could use it as a fuel source .	where did steve say we can find lanthanum in hollywood studios ?	where did steve say we can find lanthanum in hollywood studios ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar this is the story of an invention that changed the world . imagine a machine that could cut 10 hours of work down to one . a machine so efficient that it would free up people to do other things , kind of like the personal computer .	davis starts by saying , `` imagine a machine that could cut ten hours of work down to one . '' describe an industry today that would benefit greatly from this kind of machine . do you foresee any negative consequences ? what are the positive implications for such an innovation ?	davis starts by saying , `` imagine a machine that could cut ten hours of work down to one . '' describe an industry today that would benefit greatly from this kind of machine . do you foresee any negative consequences ? what are the positive implications for such an innovation ?
translator : bedirhan cinar reviewer : jessica ruby mysteries of vernacular : dynamite , an explosive consisting of nitroglycerin , typically molded into sticks . dynamite , which coincidentally is closely related to the word dynasty , has as much to do with familial persuasion as it does etymology .	in what ways is dynamite more useful than liquid nitroglycerin or gunpowder ?	in what ways is dynamite more useful than liquid nitroglycerin or gunpowder ?
dracula 's first appearance was in bram stoker 's 1897 novel of the same name . but that was far from the beginning of vampire myths . blood-sucking monsters had already been part of folklore for at least 800 years . it was slavic folklore that gave us the word vampire , or `` upir '' in old russian . the term 's first known written mention comes from the 11th century .	what does the struggle between the hapsburgs and the ottomans suggest about the spreading of vampire folklore inside , and outside , of eastern europe ?	what does the struggle between the hapsburgs and the ottomans suggest about the spreading of vampire folklore inside , and outside , of eastern europe ?
those ridges are covered in tiny hair-like structures , much thinner than human hair , called setae . and each of the setae is covered in even tinier bristles called spatulae . their tiny spatula-like shape is perfect for what the gecko needs them to do : stick and release on command . when the gecko unfurls its flexible toes onto the ceiling , the spatulae hit at the perfect angle for the van der waals force to engage .	how do the setae and spatulae help the gecko stick ?	how do the setae and spatulae help the gecko stick ?
`` so , we believe this higgs field is all around us , everywhere in the universe . and what it does is rather special - it gives mass to elementary particles . '' `` what 's an elementary particle ? ''	what would be the consequence of the elementary particles having different masses from the ones that they actually have ? as examples , consider the electron and the w bosons… .	what would be the consequence of the elementary particles having different masses from the ones that they actually have ? as examples , consider the electron and the w bosons… .
free from the constraints of the present and our assumptions of what 's impossible , science fiction serves as a useful tool for thinking outside of the box . many futurists recognize this , and some are beginning to employ science fictions writers in their teams . just recently , a project called iknow proposed scenarios that look much like science fiction stories . they include the discovery of an alien civilization , development of a way for humans and animals to communicate flawlessly , and radical life extension .	will artificial intelligence take over the world ? what will stand in its way ? this is an incredibly popular subject among science fiction writers . find at least one science fiction story that involves sophisticated and ‘ conscious ’ a.i . interacting with human beings , and share the insights it has on the subject .	will artificial intelligence take over the world ? what will stand in its way ? this is an incredibly popular subject among science fiction writers . find at least one science fiction story that involves sophisticated and ‘ conscious ’ a.i . interacting with human beings , and share the insights it has on the subject .
free from the constraints of the present and our assumptions of what 's impossible , science fiction serves as a useful tool for thinking outside of the box . many futurists recognize this , and some are beginning to employ science fictions writers in their teams . just recently , a project called iknow proposed scenarios that look much like science fiction stories . they include the discovery of an alien civilization , development of a way for humans and animals to communicate flawlessly , and radical life extension .	do you think that science fiction writers should take part in governmental and international relations discussions ? should politicians consult science fiction writers ?	do you think that science fiction writers should take part in governmental and international relations discussions ? should politicians consult science fiction writers ?
free from the constraints of the present and our assumptions of what 's impossible , science fiction serves as a useful tool for thinking outside of the box . many futurists recognize this , and some are beginning to employ science fictions writers in their teams . just recently , a project called iknow proposed scenarios that look much like science fiction stories . they include the discovery of an alien civilization , development of a way for humans and animals to communicate flawlessly , and radical life extension .	which technological advances were not forecast by science fiction writers ?	which technological advances were not forecast by science fiction writers ?
actually , yes . using particle accelerators , we can mimic the complex nuclear reactions that create gold in stars . but these machines can only construct gold atom by atom . so it would take almost the age of the universe to produce one gram at a cost vastly exceeding the current value of gold . so that 's not a very good solution .	how long would it take to make a gram of gold with a particle accelerator ?	how long would it take to make a gram of gold with a particle accelerator ?
it comes from a pocket of skin called the esca . the esca holds bioluminescent bacteria . the anglerfish ca n't glow there by itself , so it holds a sack of glowing bacteria instead .	what is the name for the fleshy growth on the anglerfish that contains bioluminescent bacteria and serves as a lure to attract prey ?	what is the name for the fleshy growth on the anglerfish that contains bioluminescent bacteria and serves as a lure to attract prey ?
apollinaire created the calligram as a poem picture , a written portrait , a thoughts drawing , and he used it to express his modernism and his desire to push poetry beyond the normal bounds of text and verse and into the 20th century . some of his calligrams are funny , like the `` lettre-océan . '' some of them are dedicated to his young dead friends , like `` la colombe poignardée et le jet d'eau . ''	which parts of the poem “ lettre-océan ” could best be described as traditional poetry ? explain your answer .	which parts of the poem “ lettre-océan ” could best be described as traditional poetry ? explain your answer .
there are lots of foods with this type of fat profile . the point is this : it 's not how much fat you eat , it 's what kind of fat . and what makes a particular fat healthy or unhealthy is its shape .	rank the three types of fat in order from most to least healthy	rank the three types of fat in order from most to least healthy
a particular type of scientist , called a cosmologist , spends her time thinking about that very question . the end of the universe is intimately linked to what the universe contains . over 100 years ago , einstein developed the theory of general relativity , formed of equations that help us understand the relationship between what a universe is made of and its shape .	we think the universe will end in a :	we think the universe will end in a :
of course , now you can argue that we 're only using 75 % of that screen . and that is where the real question is : do you want your full screen , or do you want to see the entire movie ? most likely , you just need a bigger tv .	do you want your full screen , or do you want to see the entire movie ? do you consider yourself an avid tv watcher or a movie buff ? do the notorious black bars necessary on typical televisions bother you , or is it a welcome compromise ? explain how you would ideally watch a movie on your television .	do you want your full screen , or do you want to see the entire movie ? do you consider yourself an avid tv watcher or a movie buff ? do the notorious black bars necessary on typical televisions bother you , or is it a welcome compromise ? explain how you would ideally watch a movie on your television .
how and when did our universe begin ? how did it get to look like this ?	how have improvements in satellites and ground and space based telescopes improved our understanding of the universe ?	how have improvements in satellites and ground and space based telescopes improved our understanding of the universe ?
we call this a mass extinction event , and although such events may be rare , paleontologists have been able to identify several of them through dramatic changes in the fossil record , where lineages that persisted through several geological layers suddenly disappear . in fact , these mass extinctions are used to divide the earth 's history into distinct periods . although the disappearance of the dinosaurs is the best known mass extinction event , the largest occurred long before dinosaurs ever existed .	when was the most severe mass extinction in earth ’ s history ?	when was the most severe mass extinction in earth ’ s history ?
so how do we determine whether languages are related in the first place ? similar sounding words do n't tell us much . they could be false cognates or just directly borrowed terms rather than derived from a common root .	why are words that sound similar and have similar meanings not enough to establish a relation between languages ?	why are words that sound similar and have similar meanings not enough to establish a relation between languages ?
to make your farming dreams come true , you 're going to have to press beyond your strong ties , people like your family and closest friends , and try tapping into your weaker ties . weak ties are a broader network , your friends of friends of friends . they 're important because they have access to resources that your strong ties do n't have . this works in both directions , by the way - you have access to resources that they do n't have .	weak ties are important because :	weak ties are important because :
the injured muscle may not be able to pump blood as well , and its rhythm might be thrown off . in the worst case scenario , a heart attack can cause sudden death . and how do you know that someone is having a heart attack ? the most common symptom is chest pain caused by the oxygen-deprived heart muscle .	what steps should one take immediately when someone near you is experiencing a heart attack ?	what steps should one take immediately when someone near you is experiencing a heart attack ?
the injured muscle may not be able to pump blood as well , and its rhythm might be thrown off . in the worst case scenario , a heart attack can cause sudden death . and how do you know that someone is having a heart attack ? the most common symptom is chest pain caused by the oxygen-deprived heart muscle .	lifestyle modifications can prevent the risk of a future heart attack . what advice would you give someone in your family about this ?	lifestyle modifications can prevent the risk of a future heart attack . what advice would you give someone in your family about this ?
so the law should be : do n't make your city from buildings that could be just anywhere ; find a style of architecture that reflects what makes your location specific . the obstacles to building beautiful cities and not economic . collectively , we 've got enough money .	what was the suggested maximum height for a building in a beautiful city ?	what was the suggested maximum height for a building in a beautiful city ?
if the rate of nausea is higher in the herbal cohort , it suggests an association between the herbal supplement and nausea . epidemiological studies are great tools to study the health effects of almost anything , without directly interfering in people 's lives or assigning them to potentially dangerous exposures . so , why ca n't we rely on these studies to establish causal relationships between substances and their effects on health ?	give some examples where epidemiological studies have helped scientists understand the risks of particular agents or exposures .	give some examples where epidemiological studies have helped scientists understand the risks of particular agents or exposures .
consider this scenario . betsy and xander are in a loving , committed relationship . betsy is head over heels and has never felt happier . however , unbeknownst to betsy , xander has been romancing her sister , angelica , with love letters and secret rendezvous for the duration of their relationship . if betsy found out , it would destroy her relationships with both xander and angelica , and the experience would be so traumatic , she would never love again . since betsy is in blissful ignorance about xander 's infidelity , hedonists would say she 's better off remaining in the dark and maintaining her high level of net pleasure . as long as betsy never finds out about the relationship , her life is guaranteed to go on as happily as it is right now .	in the example of betsy , xander and angelica , hedonists would say that betsy should :	in the example of betsy , xander and angelica , hedonists would say that betsy should :
`` very well . mr. jackson , is it not the case that immediately upon assuming office you introduced the spoils system , replacing hundreds of perfectly good federal employees with incompetent party loyalists ? '' `` your honor , the president did no such thing . he tried to institute rotation in office to avoid any profiteering or funny business .	the “ spoils system ” refers to when a newly elected president ________ .	the “ spoils system ” refers to when a newly elected president ________ .
for a pair of those people , we then increment n by 2 , but then what ? there is n't another full pair of people in the room , so line 2 no longer applies . and so , by this algorithm 's end , n is still 2 , which is n't correct .	if there are 50 people in the room which line of our final algorithm never executes ?	if there are 50 people in the room which line of our final algorithm never executes ?
that warm , fuzzy feeling you get when you taste grandma 's chocolate cake ? that 's your reward system saying , `` mmm , yes ! '' and it 's not just activated by food .	overstimulation of the reward system may result in	overstimulation of the reward system may result in
life is a lot odder than we think , but it ’ s also as a consequence far richer in possibilities . things don ’ t have to be quite the way they are . in the course of fully realising our freedom , we will come up against what sartre calls the ‘ angoisse ’ or ‘ anguish ’ of existence .	how might you look at something in your immediate environment in a sartrean way ?	how might you look at something in your immediate environment in a sartrean way ?
over the past century , particle physicists have been studying matter and forces at higher and higher energies . firstly with cosmic rays , and then with particle accelerators , machines that smash together subatomic particles at great energies . the greater the energy of the accelerator , the further back in time they can effectively peek .	which of these particles is the smallest ?	which of these particles is the smallest ?
over the past century , particle physicists have been studying matter and forces at higher and higher energies . firstly with cosmic rays , and then with particle accelerators , machines that smash together subatomic particles at great energies . the greater the energy of the accelerator , the further back in time they can effectively peek .	the cosmic rays used in the early days of particle physics experiments can actually reach far greater energies than particle accelerators can achieve in the laboratory . why do you think particle physicists switched to particle accelerators in the 1950 ’ s , and continue to use machines like the large hadron collider ( lhc ) today ? are there any experiments taking place now that do use cosmic rays ? what might they tell us about the universe ?	the cosmic rays used in the early days of particle physics experiments can actually reach far greater energies than particle accelerators can achieve in the laboratory . why do you think particle physicists switched to particle accelerators in the 1950 ’ s , and continue to use machines like the large hadron collider ( lhc ) today ? are there any experiments taking place now that do use cosmic rays ? what might they tell us about the universe ?
they know enough to know that there 's a lot they do n't know . meanwhile , experts tend to be aware of just how knowledgeable they are . but they often make a different mistake : they assume that everyone else is knowledgeable , too . the result is that people , whether they 're inept or highly skilled , are often caught in a bubble of inaccurate self-perception .	what mistake do experts make when evaluating their skills ?	what mistake do experts make when evaluating their skills ?
the romantics used these mythical references to signal the purity of the ancient world in contrast to modernity . they typically regarded science with suspicion , and `` frankenstein '' is one of the first cautionary tales about artificial intelligence . for shelley , the terror was not supernatural , but born in a lab .	in science , religion or politics , the term frankenstein is sometimes used to describe a disastrous event created as the result of deliberate circumstances . why do you think this is ?	in science , religion or politics , the term frankenstein is sometimes used to describe a disastrous event created as the result of deliberate circumstances . why do you think this is ?
in certain conditions , charge separation will occur in clouds . we do n't know exactly how this happens . it may have to do with the circulation of water droplets and ice particles within them .	what happens to an atom if you pull off an electron from it ?	what happens to an atom if you pull off an electron from it ?
we take off our dream shoes , and button ourselves into our lives . some metaphors include the words `` like '' or `` as . '' `` sweet as honey , '' `` strong as a tree . ''	you might like using metaphors when you write and talk because	you might like using metaphors when you write and talk because
one is the concept of common knowledge where each person is aware of what the others know and uses this to predict their reasoning . and the final distribution is an example of a nash equilibrium where each player knows every other players ' strategy and chooses theirs accordingly . even though it may lead to a worse outcome for everyone than cooperating would , no individual player can benefit by changing their strategy .	what is the final distribution ?	what is the final distribution ?
one is the concept of common knowledge where each person is aware of what the others know and uses this to predict their reasoning . and the final distribution is an example of a nash equilibrium where each player knows every other players ' strategy and chooses theirs accordingly . even though it may lead to a worse outcome for everyone than cooperating would , no individual player can benefit by changing their strategy .	explain why everyone votes the way they do in the final distribution .	explain why everyone votes the way they do in the final distribution .
the cotton plants require a huge quantity of water and pesticides . 2,700 liters of water are needed to produce the average t-shirt , enough to fill more than 30 bathtubs . meanwhile , cotton uses more insecticides and pesticides than any other crop in the world .	to produce the average t-shirt takes :	to produce the average t-shirt takes :
but while most of the particles did pass through , some bounced right back , suggesting that the foil was more like a thick net with a very large mesh . rutherford concluded that atoms consisted largely of empty space with just a few electrons , while most of the mass was concentrated in the center , which he termed the nucleus . the alpha particles passed through the gaps but bounced back from the dense , positively charged nucleus .	what occurred during rutherford ’ s experiment that lead to his discovery of the nucleus ?	what occurred during rutherford ’ s experiment that lead to his discovery of the nucleus ?
many of these court gestures can still be seen in modern ballet techniques . ballet was brought to france in the 16th century by catherine de ' medici , the italian wife of king henry ii . as celebrations became more lavish , so did the dance , with dancing masters teaching elaborate steps to young nobles and story elements providing a unifying theme .	ballet was brought to france in what century ?	ballet was brought to france in what century ?
many of these court gestures can still be seen in modern ballet techniques . ballet was brought to france in the 16th century by catherine de ' medici , the italian wife of king henry ii . as celebrations became more lavish , so did the dance , with dancing masters teaching elaborate steps to young nobles and story elements providing a unifying theme .	catherine de medici brought ballet to 16th century france . describe the way ballet ’ s role in the court shifted between then and the time of louis xiv .	catherine de medici brought ballet to 16th century france . describe the way ballet ’ s role in the court shifted between then and the time of louis xiv .
verbal irony is when someone says something , but truly means the opposite . dramatic irony , though , is what we will be looking at right now . dramatic irony is when the audience seems to know more about an event , a situation , or a conversation than the characters in the movie , on the show , or in the book do .	dramatic irony is when the audience is in on a secret that the __________ .	dramatic irony is when the audience is in on a secret that the __________ .
verbal irony is when someone says something , but truly means the opposite . dramatic irony , though , is what we will be looking at right now . dramatic irony is when the audience seems to know more about an event , a situation , or a conversation than the characters in the movie , on the show , or in the book do .	see the information about jaws in the dig deeper section . do you think dramatic irony helped make this movie a success ?	see the information about jaws in the dig deeper section . do you think dramatic irony helped make this movie a success ?
those changes in turn drive their decline , and subsequently , the failure of the whole organism . the exact mechanisms of aging are poorly understood . but recently , scientists have identified nine physiological traits , ranging from genetic changes to alterations in a cell 's regenerative ability that play a central role .	aging can be defined as :	aging can be defined as :
those changes in turn drive their decline , and subsequently , the failure of the whole organism . the exact mechanisms of aging are poorly understood . but recently , scientists have identified nine physiological traits , ranging from genetic changes to alterations in a cell 's regenerative ability that play a central role .	the accumulation of toxic substances involved in aging :	the accumulation of toxic substances involved in aging :
those changes in turn drive their decline , and subsequently , the failure of the whole organism . the exact mechanisms of aging are poorly understood . but recently , scientists have identified nine physiological traits , ranging from genetic changes to alterations in a cell 's regenerative ability that play a central role .	why is it difficult to define aging ?	why is it difficult to define aging ?
because the brain 's not mechanical , the brain is electrical and it 's chemical . your brain is made out of 100 billion cells , called neurons . and these neurons communicate with each other with electricity .	your brain has about 100 billion of these	your brain has about 100 billion of these
he discovered that a piece of amber , when rubbed with fur , could pick up small pieces of straw . in thales 's language , amber was called `` electron . '' for a long time , that was pretty much all anybody knew about the subject .	in thales ' ancient greek language , what did they call amber ?	in thales ' ancient greek language , what did they call amber ?
for more than 2,000 years , zeno 's mind-bending riddles have inspired mathematicians and philosophers to better understand the nature of infinity . one of the best known of zeno 's problems is called the dichotomy paradox , which means , `` the paradox of cutting in two '' in ancient greek . it goes something like this : after a long day of sitting around , thinking , zeno decides to walk from his house to the park .	a paradox is :	a paradox is :
for more than 2,000 years , zeno 's mind-bending riddles have inspired mathematicians and philosophers to better understand the nature of infinity . one of the best known of zeno 's problems is called the dichotomy paradox , which means , `` the paradox of cutting in two '' in ancient greek . it goes something like this : after a long day of sitting around , thinking , zeno decides to walk from his house to the park .	the word “ dichotomy ” translates as	the word “ dichotomy ” translates as
for more than 2,000 years , zeno 's mind-bending riddles have inspired mathematicians and philosophers to better understand the nature of infinity . one of the best known of zeno 's problems is called the dichotomy paradox , which means , `` the paradox of cutting in two '' in ancient greek . it goes something like this : after a long day of sitting around , thinking , zeno decides to walk from his house to the park .	another paradox , similar to the dichotomy , but slightly more complicated , is called achilles and the tortoise . in this paradox , achilles - the fastest runner in all greece - races a tortoise . achilles , confident of victory , agrees to give the tortoise a head start . à la zeno , construct an argument that “ proves ” that achilles will never catch up with the tortoise .	another paradox , similar to the dichotomy , but slightly more complicated , is called achilles and the tortoise . in this paradox , achilles - the fastest runner in all greece - races a tortoise . achilles , confident of victory , agrees to give the tortoise a head start . à la zeno , construct an argument that “ proves ” that achilles will never catch up with the tortoise .
so what is radiation really , and how much should we worry about its effects ? the answer begins with understanding that the word radiation describes two very different scientific phenomena : electromagnetic radiation and nuclear radiation . electromagnetic radiation is pure energy consisting of interacting electrical and magnetic waves oscillating through space . as these waves oscillate faster , they scale up in energy .	electromagnetic radiation consists of oscillating waves of pure energy . which of the following is not an example of electromagnetic radiation ?	electromagnetic radiation consists of oscillating waves of pure energy . which of the following is not an example of electromagnetic radiation ?
when a tomato plant responds to blight by acitvating disease-fighting genes and enzymes , signaling molecules produced by its immune system can travel to a healthy plant and prompt it to turn on its immune system , too . these advance warnings increase the plants chance of survival . bean plants also eavesdrop on each other 's health through these fungal conduits .	why do plants communicate ? what advantages might they get from communicating that increase their chances of survival and reproduction ?	why do plants communicate ? what advantages might they get from communicating that increase their chances of survival and reproduction ?
their real life situation is far more precarious than people think . and if current trends do not change , it may not be long before penguins can only be found in movies . there are many things about penguins that make them odd birds , so to speak . for one thing , they are one of the few bird species that can not fly , having evolved from flight-capable birds about 60 million years ago . surprisingly , their closest living relative is the albatross , a bird known for its enormous wingspan and extraordinary soaring abilities .	penguins evolved from birds of flight approximately 60 million years ago . what adaptations and physical changes did penguins make over the millennia to become such specialized seabirds , and to be the champion swimmers and divers that we see today ? how do penguins hold their breath for so long ( from 3 to 27 minutes , depending on the species ) , and how can they dive to such great depths ( from hundreds of feet to 1,800 feet , depending on the species ) without having to fight the effects of buoyancy ?	penguins evolved from birds of flight approximately 60 million years ago . what adaptations and physical changes did penguins make over the millennia to become such specialized seabirds , and to be the champion swimmers and divers that we see today ? how do penguins hold their breath for so long ( from 3 to 27 minutes , depending on the species ) , and how can they dive to such great depths ( from hundreds of feet to 1,800 feet , depending on the species ) without having to fight the effects of buoyancy ?
jacob soboroff : do you happen to know ? ron paul : on tuesdays ? js : the day after the first monday in november .	how long have americans been voting on tuesdays	how long have americans been voting on tuesdays
but when you eat foods high in fiber , like vegetables , fruits , and whole grains , those indigestible beta bonds slow the release of glucose into the blood . those foods have a lower glycemic index , and foods like eggs , cheese , and meats have the lowest glycemic index . when sugar moves from the digestive tract to the blood stream , your body kicks into action to transfer it into your tissues where it can be processed and used for energy .	which of these foods would have the lowest glycemic index ?	which of these foods would have the lowest glycemic index ?
but when you eat foods high in fiber , like vegetables , fruits , and whole grains , those indigestible beta bonds slow the release of glucose into the blood . those foods have a lower glycemic index , and foods like eggs , cheese , and meats have the lowest glycemic index . when sugar moves from the digestive tract to the blood stream , your body kicks into action to transfer it into your tissues where it can be processed and used for energy .	how might glycemic index be used to help people achieve better control of their blood glucose ?	how might glycemic index be used to help people achieve better control of their blood glucose ?
but when you eat foods high in fiber , like vegetables , fruits , and whole grains , those indigestible beta bonds slow the release of glucose into the blood . those foods have a lower glycemic index , and foods like eggs , cheese , and meats have the lowest glycemic index . when sugar moves from the digestive tract to the blood stream , your body kicks into action to transfer it into your tissues where it can be processed and used for energy .	why do foods like meat , cheese , and eggs have the lowest glycemic index ?	why do foods like meat , cheese , and eggs have the lowest glycemic index ?
it is 20 times higher than in the fluid outside the nerve while that outside fluid has 10 times more sodium than the inside of a nerve . this imbalance between sodium outside and potassium inside the cell results in the inside of the nerve having a negative electrical charge relative to the outside of the nerve , about equal to -70 or -80 millivolts . this is called the nerve 's resting potential . but in response to that stimulus the nerve is designed to detect , pores in the cell wall near the receptor of the cell open .	there is an imbalance in the ions on the inside of the nerve and the outside of the nerve resulting in a negative electrical charge of approximately -70 millivolts . this is called the nerve ’ s :	there is an imbalance in the ions on the inside of the nerve and the outside of the nerve resulting in a negative electrical charge of approximately -70 millivolts . this is called the nerve ’ s :
so by that reasoning , the more you spend money on experiences rather than things , the happier you 'd be . and there 's another way to turn your money into happiness : spend it on other people . in one study , participants were given some money and were either asked to spend it on themselves or on someone else .	you have received a large sum of money , the best way to ensure your happiness is to :	you have received a large sum of money , the best way to ensure your happiness is to :
other critical components included platforms and trusses to support radiators that direct all the heat generated by the station 's electronics into space and solar panels that are efficient enough to power 55 homes . it took ten years and over 30 missions , but finally , the international space station was complete , coinciding with the u.s. space shuttle program 's retirement . the space station continues to serve as an incredible model for international collaboration . this year , two people began a one-year stay on the iss , allowing scientists to study the long-term physical and psychological effects of being in space , which would prove useful for increasingly ambitious space travel , like trips to mars .	how long does it take the international space station to orbit the earth ?	how long does it take the international space station to orbit the earth ?
other critical components included platforms and trusses to support radiators that direct all the heat generated by the station 's electronics into space and solar panels that are efficient enough to power 55 homes . it took ten years and over 30 missions , but finally , the international space station was complete , coinciding with the u.s. space shuttle program 's retirement . the space station continues to serve as an incredible model for international collaboration . this year , two people began a one-year stay on the iss , allowing scientists to study the long-term physical and psychological effects of being in space , which would prove useful for increasingly ambitious space travel , like trips to mars .	about how big is the international space station ?	about how big is the international space station ?
other critical components included platforms and trusses to support radiators that direct all the heat generated by the station 's electronics into space and solar panels that are efficient enough to power 55 homes . it took ten years and over 30 missions , but finally , the international space station was complete , coinciding with the u.s. space shuttle program 's retirement . the space station continues to serve as an incredible model for international collaboration . this year , two people began a one-year stay on the iss , allowing scientists to study the long-term physical and psychological effects of being in space , which would prove useful for increasingly ambitious space travel , like trips to mars .	imagine that there had been a rocket big enough to lift the entire international space station into space . what kind of challenges might that plan present ?	imagine that there had been a rocket big enough to lift the entire international space station into space . what kind of challenges might that plan present ?
bob grubbs compound has ruthenium and his is the most widely used and it is now used in a whole series of industrial processes . this is another compound of ruthenium which you can see is a rather nice red colour and it has the rather unromantic name of ruthenium bpy three times or chemists who use it call it rubpy . and the point about this compound is that it absorbs light well and it is very stable , you can shine light on it , very intense light for a long time and the compound does not decompose , it does not change .	what is the abbreviated name of the red coordination complex that the professor calls tris ( bipyridine ) ruthenium ( ii ) dichloride ?	what is the abbreviated name of the red coordination complex that the professor calls tris ( bipyridine ) ruthenium ( ii ) dichloride ?
there are more than 60,000 vertebrate species on the planet . but the class of insects contains a million known species , and many others that have n't been classified . in fact , these critters make up approximately 75 % of all animals on earth .	many people are surprised to learn that insects are animals . think of your favorite animal and list the traits and characteristics that it has in common with an insect .	many people are surprised to learn that insects are animals . think of your favorite animal and list the traits and characteristics that it has in common with an insect .
there are more than 60,000 vertebrate species on the planet . but the class of insects contains a million known species , and many others that have n't been classified . in fact , these critters make up approximately 75 % of all animals on earth .	another adaptation that allows insects to be so successful is the ability of many to fly . how do you think being able to fly would be advantageous ?	another adaptation that allows insects to be so successful is the ability of many to fly . how do you think being able to fly would be advantageous ?
but there is another way to test whether shakespeare 's famous lines were actually written by someone else . linguistics , the study of language , can tell us a great deal about the way we speak and write by examining syntax , grammar , semantics and vocabulary . and in the late 1800s , a polish philosopher named wincenty lutosławski formalized a method known as stylometry , applying this knowledge to investigate questions of literary authorship .	what is the study of language ?	what is the study of language ?
- when you get to space , because you 're in a zero g environment , some really funky things happen to your body . ( upbeat music ) i grew an inch .	1. you grow taller in space . how can this happen ?	1. you grow taller in space . how can this happen ?
- when you get to space , because you 're in a zero g environment , some really funky things happen to your body . ( upbeat music ) i grew an inch .	4. from the description in the video , determine what the word `` atrophy '' means .	4. from the description in the video , determine what the word `` atrophy '' means .
it 's an amazing planet , there is an amazing number of things happening , some of them , you are hearing about it today . that 's the only place in the universe where we know that there is life , so that makes it extremely special . what i 'm going to talk to you about is this great adventure in astronomy that is happening where we are actually actively looking for other places like this .	where is the only place in the universe that we currently know life exists ?	where is the only place in the universe that we currently know life exists ?
it may seem like the semicolon is struggling with an identity crisis . it looks like a comma crossed with a period .	choose the statement that is true :	choose the statement that is true :
they may even have to force out some performatives of their own , such as apologizing to the life guard and promising to never run again . maybe the life guard will respond with another performative , sentencing them to be banished from the pool for the rest of the day . after all , these teenagers must learn to respect the power of words .	describe a time when you disregarded a performative that resulted in another performative ( for example , you ignored the no running sign and were banished from the pool for the rest of the day ) .	describe a time when you disregarded a performative that resulted in another performative ( for example , you ignored the no running sign and were banished from the pool for the rest of the day ) .
the naming of clouds on a cold december evening in 1802 , a nervous young man named luke howard stood before the assembled members of a london science club about to give a lecture that would change his life and go on to change humanity 's understanding of the skies . luke howard was a pharmacist by profession , but he was a meteorologist by inclination , having been obsessed by clouds and weather since childhood . as a school boy , he spent hours staring out of the classroom window , gazing at the passing clouds .	luke howard 's profession was :	luke howard 's profession was :
want to live a long life ? you may have to curb your chronic stress . that 's because it has even been associated with shortened telomeres , the shoelace tip ends of chromosomes that measure a cell 's age .	what differentiates good stress from `` toxic '' stress ?	what differentiates good stress from `` toxic '' stress ?
it 's not a medical term , do n't worry , you do n't have to take drugs for it , it 's an easy fix : all you have to do is get outside . because we have 7 billion people in the world today , but if you were to put all those 7 billion people shoulder-to-shoulder with each other , they could all fit in the city of l.a . it 's not necessarily that we are running out of space , it 's how we are using that space up .	if you took all 7 billion people that live on the planet shoulder to shoulder with one another , they would take up the same area as :	if you took all 7 billion people that live on the planet shoulder to shoulder with one another , they would take up the same area as :
pretty cheery , right ? that 's actually what plato suggested in his allegory of the cave , found in book vii of `` the republic , '' in which the greek philosopher envisioned the ideal society by examining concepts like justice , truth and beauty . in the allegory , a group of prisoners have been confined in a cavern since birth , with no knowledge of the outside world .	how does the allegory of the cave first come up in the republic ?	how does the allegory of the cave first come up in the republic ?
a metal grid sits above the needles , and an electric field is set up between the grid and the plate . when the plate is heated , the indium melts and capillary action draws the liquid metal up the needles . the electric field tugs the molten metal upwards , while surface tension pulls it back , causing the indium to deform into a cone .	what draws the liquid indium metal fuel to the tip of the emitters ?	what draws the liquid indium metal fuel to the tip of the emitters ?
you should feel like it 's directed specifically at you , and only you , that it 's addressing your needs and desire to learn about your world . if i tell you that all the cool , fresh and hip people are buying a new drink or wearing a particular brand , the buzzwords `` new , '' `` fresh '' or `` free '' make the product seem more interesting and appealing . if i wrap that product or idea in a simple phrase that 's easy to remember and becomes part of your everyday speech , then every time you hear or say those few words , your brain connects them to the product .	what 's your favorite brand ? can you attribute your fondness to the advertising about the brand ?	what 's your favorite brand ? can you attribute your fondness to the advertising about the brand ?
just pick a favorite text , arrange the letters in a grid , and see what you can find . the mathematician t.s . motzkin once remarked that , `` while disorder is more probable in general , complete disorder is impossible . ''	the mathematician t.s . mazkin stated that :	the mathematician t.s . mazkin stated that :
ultimately , the thyroid allows our cells to use energy , grow and reproduce . the thyroid is controlled by the pituitary gland , a hormonal gland deep in the brain that oversees the thyroid 's tasks , making sure it knows when to send out its messengers . the pituitary 's role is to sense if hormone levels in the blood are too low or too high , in which case it sends out instructions in the form of the thyroid- stimulating hormone .	the pituitary gland _____	the pituitary gland _____
so you ’ re sleeping , dreaming about petting pandas with emma watson or whatever , when the smoke alarm goes off . well , action potentials in your brain trigger neurons in your hypothalamus to release the peptide hormone crh , or corticotropin releasing hormone . the crh makes the very short trip through the bloodstream to the anterior pituitary gland , where , because it ’ s water soluble , it binds to receptors on the outside of its target cells .	what hormone does the thyroid produce and what function does that hormone serve ?	what hormone does the thyroid produce and what function does that hormone serve ?
of those that began as eggs on a distant beach , now less than 10 percent remain , at least , those were the odds prior to significant human interference . over the past century , and in particular in the last several decades , human endeavors , from beach development to plastic refuse to poaching , long lines , nets , and even noxious chemicals , including oil , have upped the ante for sea turtles , causing their survival rate to drop to around one percent or less , from each nesting cycle . it is this added human pressure which has pushed each of the eight sea turtle species into either a threatened or endangered state . for while they have evolved to overcome a host of obstacles , the most recent has arisen so quickly and at such scale that the species find themselves overwhelmed .	human influence on sea turtle populations has caused their survival rate to drop to nearly 1 % from each nesting cycle . what factor contributes to this decline ?	human influence on sea turtle populations has caused their survival rate to drop to nearly 1 % from each nesting cycle . what factor contributes to this decline ?
in these northern latitudes , you have distinct seasons where it 's really nice and green for part of the year and really cold for the other part . if you eat plants , you have almost nothing to eat for the cold part of the year . so , you either have to migrate like geese or hibernate like ground squirrels .	if you ’ re an animal that eats plants , what do you do when winter comes and there ’ s nothing to eat ?	if you ’ re an animal that eats plants , what do you do when winter comes and there ’ s nothing to eat ?
it is so massive that the light passing through it is being bent , it 's being distorted by the extreme gravity of this cluster . and , in fact , if you look very carefully you 'll be able to see rings around this cluster . now , to give you a number , this particular galaxy cluster has a mass of over one million billion suns .	why do we see rings around some galaxy clusters ?	why do we see rings around some galaxy clusters ?
they experience painful gut symptoms and suffer from fatigue , brain fog , joint pain or skin rash . a gluten-free diet typically helps with these symptoms . so how many people actually have this gluten sensitivity you speak of ?	your friend tells you she is on a gluten-free diet . you want to take her out for a birthday dinner . what might the menu consist of ? ( be sure to meet her dietary needs without causing her stomach issues ! )	your friend tells you she is on a gluten-free diet . you want to take her out for a birthday dinner . what might the menu consist of ? ( be sure to meet her dietary needs without causing her stomach issues ! )
this is in part because they are doing important work in interesting places . that 's one example here : this is a project i worked on in the blue nile in ethiopia . ngos understand the benefits of having reporters tag along on their team .	what ’ s dodson ’ s example of how we “ one-note ” africa ?	what ’ s dodson ’ s example of how we “ one-note ” africa ?
in art and technology , gift economies are emerging as an alternative to intellectual property where artists , musicians , and open-source developers distribute their creative works , not for financial profit , but to raise their social profile or establish their community role . and even potluck dinners and holiday gift traditions involve some degree of reciprocity and social norms . we might wonder if a gift is truly a gift if it comes with obligations or involves some social pay off . but this is missing the point .	in a gift economy , how could reciprocating a gift with one of the same value be interpreted ?	in a gift economy , how could reciprocating a gift with one of the same value be interpreted ?
eventually , erosion overtakes uplift , wearing down peaks faster than they 're pushed up . a third factor shapes mountains : climate . in subzero temperatures , some snowfall does n't completely melt away , instead slowly compacting until it becomes ice .	why do mountains in different areas have different shapes ?	why do mountains in different areas have different shapes ?
but there 's a catch . because the security system is on lockdown , once you enter the contaminated room , you ca n't exit without activating the switch , and once you 've done so , you wo n't be able to go back in to that room . you start to draw out possible routes on a pad of paper , but nothing seems to get you to the exit without missing at least one room .	suppose the size of the room was not n x n , but n x m. what do you know about the values of n and m that would make it possible to go directly from the northwest corner to the southeast corner without having to re-enter a room ? what values would make it impossible ?	suppose the size of the room was not n x n , but n x m. what do you know about the values of n and m that would make it possible to go directly from the northwest corner to the southeast corner without having to re-enter a room ? what values would make it impossible ?
the `` victoria '' continued west , piloted by juan sebastián elcano , one of the pardoned mutineers . against all odds , the small vessel made it back to spain with a full cargo of cloves and cinnamon , enough to cover the expedition and turn a profit . an obsessive chronicler , pigafetta described the lands and people they encountered .	what was so special about cloves , cinnamon and other spices ?	what was so special about cloves , cinnamon and other spices ?
investors might then buy more of the stock , raising the prices even further due to an increased demand . this can result in a feedback loop where investors get caught up in the hype and ultimately drive prices far above intrinsic value , creating a bubble . all that is needed for a mania to end and for a bubble to burst is the collective realization that the price of the stock , or a tulip , far exceeds its worth .	stocks of companies go up in value or down in value based on _____ .	stocks of companies go up in value or down in value based on _____ .
your body is a temple , but it ’ s also a museum of natural history . look closely and you ’ ll see parts that aren ’ t there because you need them but because your animal ancestors did .	what are tailbones made out of ?	what are tailbones made out of ?
fish are in trouble . the cod population off canada 's east coast collapsed in the 1990s , intense recreational and commercial fishing has decimated goliath grouper populations in south florida , and most populations of tuna have plummeted by over 50 % , with the southern atlantic bluefin on the verge of extinction . those are just a couple of many examples .	by what percent has the amount of tuna decreased globally since 1950 ?	by what percent has the amount of tuna decreased globally since 1950 ?
motzkin once remarked that , `` while disorder is more probable in general , complete disorder is impossible . '' the sheer size of the universe guarantees that some of its random elements will fall into specific arrangements , and because we evolved to notice patterns and pick out signals among the noise , we are often tempted to find intentional meaning where there may not be any . so while we may be awed by hidden messages in everything from books , to pieces of toast , to the night sky , their real origin is usually our own minds .	what characteristic of the universe virtually guarantees that some of its random elements will fall into specific arrangements ?	what characteristic of the universe virtually guarantees that some of its random elements will fall into specific arrangements ?
in fact , we frequently overestimate our own abilities . researchers have a name for this phenomena , the dunning-kruger effect . this effect explains why more than 100 studies have shown that people display illusory superiority .	according to the dunning-kruger effect , people fail to recognize their deficits and shortcomings because :	according to the dunning-kruger effect , people fail to recognize their deficits and shortcomings because :
in fact , we frequently overestimate our own abilities . researchers have a name for this phenomena , the dunning-kruger effect . this effect explains why more than 100 studies have shown that people display illusory superiority .	poor performers suffering from the dunning-kruger effect :	poor performers suffering from the dunning-kruger effect :
but his vast wealth was only one piece of his rich legacy . when mansa musa came to power in 1312 , much of europe was racked by famine and civil wars . but many african kingdoms and the islamic world were flourishing , and mansa musa played a great role in bringing the fruits of this flourishing to his own realm .	in which year did mansa musa come into power ?	in which year did mansa musa come into power ?
studies have shown that many top athletes , musicians , and dancers spend 50-60 hours per week on activities related to their craft . many divide their time used for effective practice into multiple daily practice sessions of limited duration . and finally , practice in your brain in vivid detail .	what properties of practice lead to mastery ?	what properties of practice lead to mastery ?
unfortunately , she quickly had to bid farewell to her beloved brother and continue on with the journey . at one point , the expedition became so difficult and freezing , the group was reduced to eating candles to survive . when temperatures finally became more bearable , sacajawea found , dug , and cooked roots to help the group regain their strength .	at one point the expedition became so difficult and freezing , the group was reduced to eating ____________ to survive .	at one point the expedition became so difficult and freezing , the group was reduced to eating ____________ to survive .
in the case of telekinesis , the idea goes against established science , but lacks the powerful evidence in favor of it . our universe is controlled and explained by the laws of physics , and one of these laws tells us that brain waves ca n't control objects because they 're neither strong nor far-reaching enough to influence anything outside of our skulls . physics also tells us that the only forces that can influence objects from afar are magnetic and gravitational .	true or false : our brain waves have the power to shift objects slightly .	true or false : our brain waves have the power to shift objects slightly .
well , the earth only gets a sliver of the sun 's energy , while the rest of its 400 yottawatts is wasted in dead space . but a type ii , or stellar civilization , would make the most of its home star 's energy . instead of installing solar panels around a planet , a type ii civilization would install them directly orbiting its star , forming a theoretical structure called a dyson sphere .	how would you test whether stars out of which energy is actively drained would or would not be type ii ( stellar ) extraterrestrial civilizations ?	how would you test whether stars out of which energy is actively drained would or would not be type ii ( stellar ) extraterrestrial civilizations ?
it was named by two scientists , who later shared the noble prize for their work , who found that mutating this gene in fruit flies produced pointy spikes like a hedgehog . beachy and his colleagues performed genetic modifications to turn off the hedgehog genes in mice . this resulted in severe defects in the development of their brains , organs , and eyes or , rather , eye .	what do genes do ?	what do genes do ?
on the other , the forms of artistic expression made possible through surrealism , cubism , and new inventions , like the cinema and the phonograph . within that divide , through the creation of his most important contribution to poetry , the calligram , guillaume apollinaire built a bridge . apollinaire created the calligram as a poem picture , a written portrait , a thoughts drawing , and he used it to express his modernism and his desire to push poetry beyond the normal bounds of text and verse and into the 20th century .	a calligram can be defined as :	a calligram can be defined as :
so this is diethylzinc , so it 's c4h10zn . - zinc is quite important biologically , and there are all sorts of enzymes in our bodies that use zinc . and particularly one called carbonic anhydrase that catalyse at the reaction of co2 and water and so without zinc , none of us could survive . the delivery of the statement that zinc is boring were greatly under anticipating the result of this experiment .	what is the name of the enzyme that uses zinc to catalyze the reaction between co2 and water ?	what is the name of the enzyme that uses zinc to catalyze the reaction between co2 and water ?
the japanese eventually developed their own unique rituals around tea , leading to the creation of the japanese tea ceremony . and in the 14th century during the ming dynasty , the chinese emperor shifted the standard from tea pressed into cakes to loose leaf tea . at that point , china still held a virtual monopoly on the world 's tea trees , making tea one of three essential chinese export goods , along with porcelain and silk .	in what dynasty did the emperor change tea making from pressed form to the loose leaves we use today ?	in what dynasty did the emperor change tea making from pressed form to the loose leaves we use today ?
but orangutan intelligence goes far beyond jungle survival . research in controlled environments has shown that orangutans are self-aware , being one of the few species to recognize their own reflections . they also display remarkable foresight , planning , and cognition . in one experiment , researchers taught an orangutan to use a straw to extract his favorite fruit soup from a box .	in controlled research experiments , orangutans have demonstrated foresight , or the ability to act on what might happen in the future . what are some examples of foresight that orangutans might demonstrate in the wild ?	in controlled research experiments , orangutans have demonstrated foresight , or the ability to act on what might happen in the future . what are some examples of foresight that orangutans might demonstrate in the wild ?
it has waves and eddies . it flows . and when you push air out of the way , it rushes around you into a wake .	which of the following flows is not driven by pressure differences ?	which of the following flows is not driven by pressure differences ?
we 'll talk about that shortly . now , how big is an atom ? well , imagine pulling one of your hairs out of your head and whittling it like a stick 100,000 times .	how big is an atom ?	how big is an atom ?
there are millions that i could choose from and this is it : it 's called the jewel wasp . you can find it in parts of africa and asia . it 's a little under an inch long , and it is a beautiful looking parasite .	do some research . find another parasite and briefly explain how it functions .	do some research . find another parasite and briefly explain how it functions .
well , a lot of scientists and technologists are getting excited about a relatively recent invention called metallic glass with both of those properties , and more . metallic glasses look shiny and opaque , like metals , and also like metals , they conduct heat and electricity . but they 're way stronger than most metals , which means they can withstand a lot of force without getting bent or dented , making ultrasharp scalpels , and ultrastrong electronics cases , hinges , screws ; the list goes on .	what is the key structural difference between metallic glasses and metals in general ?	what is the key structural difference between metallic glasses and metals in general ?
well , a lot of scientists and technologists are getting excited about a relatively recent invention called metallic glass with both of those properties , and more . metallic glasses look shiny and opaque , like metals , and also like metals , they conduct heat and electricity . but they 're way stronger than most metals , which means they can withstand a lot of force without getting bent or dented , making ultrasharp scalpels , and ultrastrong electronics cases , hinges , screws ; the list goes on .	what are some of the similarities between metallic glasses and metals ?	what are some of the similarities between metallic glasses and metals ?
like a child playing air guitar , there are no wrong notes . allow young musicians to play and perform with accomplished musicians on a daily basis . encourage young musicians to play more than they practice . the more they play the more they will practice on their own .	wooten says that beginning musicians should play more than they practice . do you agree ? why or why not ?	wooten says that beginning musicians should play more than they practice . do you agree ? why or why not ?
today , as soon as she leaves her house , she sees a subordinate lifting the weight of two complete sentences , one on each arm . bartheleme loves engaging in political debate even though he usually loses . the comma asks the subordinate if he needs help .	even though people don ’ t think i am shy i am .	even though people don ’ t think i am shy i am .
sean carey , manager , spitzer science center , caltech ipac the big news is that around a very nearby cold , small star we found seven rocky , earth-sized planets , all of which could potentially have liquid water . three of them orbit in the habitable zone around the star . and liquid water could exist on any of the seven planets given the right conditions .	how many of those planets are in the habitable zone around the star ?	how many of those planets are in the habitable zone around the star ?
on the molecular level , water is comprised of water molecules , made up of two hydrogen atoms and an oxygen atom . as liquid water , these molecules are engaged in a constant and random square dance that is called the hydrogen bonding network . entropy favors keeping the square dance going at all times .	which statement best describes the “ hydrogen bonding network ” ?	which statement best describes the “ hydrogen bonding network ” ?
regardless , whatever you 're thinking about right now is n't reliant on a single neuron lodged in the corner of your brain . rather , the mind emerges from the collective activities of many , many neurons . there are billions of neurons in the human brain , and trillions of connections between all those neurons .	one type of emergence that is very weird to think about is your mind . your thoughts , perceptions , and decisions are based on the activities of many neurons , rather than any one neuron . what do you think is the evolutionary advantage of distributing our cognitive abilities across many neurons ?	one type of emergence that is very weird to think about is your mind . your thoughts , perceptions , and decisions are based on the activities of many neurons , rather than any one neuron . what do you think is the evolutionary advantage of distributing our cognitive abilities across many neurons ?
or keep those worms to yourself and start a business . vermicomposting is n't confined only to small worm bins , it 's an emerging entrepreneurial enterprise . large-scale facilities convert bulk organic waste and even manure into rich , black castings called black gold . its value as a soil additive is unparalleled , and it can help plants resist harmful pathogens .	worm bins can only handle small amounts of organic waste , therefore large scale vermicomposting is difficult to impossible .	worm bins can only handle small amounts of organic waste , therefore large scale vermicomposting is difficult to impossible .
another layer is the word 's structure . think of the center of the onion as a word 's base element , its essential kernel of meaning . a free-base element , like o-n-e , or t-w-o , can stand on its own as a word , like one , or two .	what is the essential kernel of meaning in a written word ?	what is the essential kernel of meaning in a written word ?
that 's often true of subconcussive impacts which result from lower impact jolts to the head than those that cause concussions . this category of injury does n't cause noticable symptoms right away , but can lead to severe degenerative brain diseases over time if it happens repeatedly . take soccer players , who are known for repeatedly heading soccer balls .	describe what specifically happens to neurons when the brain is suddenly jolted .	describe what specifically happens to neurons when the brain is suddenly jolted .
the allies pushed up from italy , the balkans , and the middle east putting austria-hungary , bulgaria and the ottoman empire out of the war . as the allies advanced the western front , germany called for an armistice to stop the fighting , bringing victory to the allies and an end to the war . the fighting stopped on the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month , 1918 .	when did the fighting stop ?	when did the fighting stop ?
one gets dropped off , leaving two lions on the left bank . the third lion takes the raft back to the right bank where the wildebeest are waiting . what now ?	after the wildebeest rafts back ( second crossing ) , which animal ( s ) now raft from the right side of the river to the left side ( third crossing ) ?	after the wildebeest rafts back ( second crossing ) , which animal ( s ) now raft from the right side of the river to the left side ( third crossing ) ?
when you guys go back to your high school , think about neuroscience and how you guys can begin the neuro-revolution . thank you very much . bye bye .	according to gage , we have a much easier time understanding and explaining organs like the heart and lungs than we do with the brain . why is that ?	according to gage , we have a much easier time understanding and explaining organs like the heart and lungs than we do with the brain . why is that ?
another important visual device used to increase the prominence of certain portions of text was to set them off with large , ornate , and colorful capital letters , often surrounded by tiny , detailed paintings . the italians began to refer to these elaborate and diminutive paintings as < i > miniatura < /i > , illuminations . because of the necessarily small size of the paintings , miniatura began to be associated with all things wee and spawned to other words with the same base , like the latin < i > minimum < /i > , for least . miniatura was transmuted into english in the 16th century as the word , < i > miniature < /i > , and since that time , it has had the exact same meaning we use today .	what are some of the modern english words that came from miniatura ?	what are some of the modern english words that came from miniatura ?
at the end of that semester , they gave me an opportunity to go to the teton science schools in wyoming . for a kid who has never been out of south central , to see mountains for the first time , to look up at the night sky and count , i could n't even count , the stars . for the first time in my life at the age of 15 i saw more stars than i could count .	where did martinez travel to see mountains for the first time ?	where did martinez travel to see mountains for the first time ?
and your body can dissipate the heat as quickly as it 's generated through cooling methods like the evaporation of sweat . but with uncompensable heat stress , your body is unable to lose enough heat due to overexertion or high temperatures in humidity , which raises your core temperature beyond normal levels . this causes the proteins and cell membranes to denature , creating cells that no longer function properly and begin to leak their contents .	how long can your body sustain exercise during uncompensable heat stress before cell damage begins ?	how long can your body sustain exercise during uncompensable heat stress before cell damage begins ?
her eyes enlarge by about ten times , her skin gets thicker , and her fins get larger . these are most likely adaptations for their upcoming ocean travel , and elaine seamlessly makes the transition from fresh to salt water , which would be toxic for most other fish . once elaine leaves the mouth of the fresh water streams , she will disappear completely from human view .	what would you imagine dams would do to migrating eels ?	what would you imagine dams would do to migrating eels ?
it 's 12:13 local time and 12:16 railway time . '' ultimately , the logic of keeping a standard time prevailed , and the united states government made time zones a matter of law with the standard time act of march 19 , 1918 . since then , there have been numerous changes to the time zones , but the concept of standard time has remained .	ultimately , the logic of standard time zones prevailed , and the us government made time zones a matter of law with ____________ .	ultimately , the logic of standard time zones prevailed , and the us government made time zones a matter of law with ____________ .
`` oh ho ho , you should n't have ! '' until i intercepted one about a mr. stank pits . no , really .	what did the intercepted note call mr. lamb ?	what did the intercepted note call mr. lamb ?
today , scientists are on a quest for alternative pest control strategies that balance the demands of food production with environmental concerns . nature has become a major source of inspiration , from natural plant and fungal chemicals that can repel or attract insects , to recruiting other insects as crop bodyguards . we 're also turning to high-tech solutions , like drones .	if pesticides are openly applied in fields , why do some insects evolve pesticide resistance while others don ’ t ?	if pesticides are openly applied in fields , why do some insects evolve pesticide resistance while others don ’ t ?
welcome to the ted-ed beta website tour . i 'm logan smalley , i 'm bedirhan cinar , i 'm jordan reeves , and i 'm stephanie lo .	what do you find on the homepage of the ted-ed website ?	what do you find on the homepage of the ted-ed website ?
welcome to the ted-ed beta website tour . i 'm logan smalley , i 'm bedirhan cinar , i 'm jordan reeves , and i 'm stephanie lo .	which feature of the ted-ed website excites you the most ?	which feature of the ted-ed website excites you the most ?
welcome to the ted-ed beta website tour . i 'm logan smalley , i 'm bedirhan cinar , i 'm jordan reeves , and i 'm stephanie lo .	if you could make an improvement to the website , what would it be ?	if you could make an improvement to the website , what would it be ?
welcome to the ted-ed beta website tour . i 'm logan smalley , i 'm bedirhan cinar , i 'm jordan reeves , and i 'm stephanie lo .	how can you browse videos on the ted-ed website ?	how can you browse videos on the ted-ed website ?
but standing at the north pole is difficult to do for very long because it 's in the middle of an ocean , covered by constantly shifting , frozen sea ice . if you were to fall into the water at the north pole , you 'd fall into water that 's 13,980 feet deep . above the water , average winter temperatures can be as low as -40 degrees celsius , and the coldest recorded temperature is approximately -68 degrees celsius .	how deep is the water at the north pole ?	how deep is the water at the north pole ?
people experience refractive errors in different ways , owing to differences in their eyes . in some , light refracts too much , and in others , too little . eyes with a focal point in front of the retina are called myopic , or short-sighted .	which part of the eye refracts light ?	which part of the eye refracts light ?
one way to think about timing is that it 's the speed , or tempo , at which an action takes place . we determine the speed of an action by how many pictures , or frames , it takes to happen . the more frames something takes to happen , the more time it spends on screen , so the slower the action will be .	we determine the speed of an action by how many ________ it takes to happen .	we determine the speed of an action by how many ________ it takes to happen .
consider , for example , the electron . it has a very small mass and negative electric charge . it 's antiparticle , the positron , has exactly the same mass , but a positive electric charge .	the main difference between particles and antiparticles is their opposite electric charge . discuss the effect on the spectrum of anti-atoms , and hence the optical appearance of an anti-star .	the main difference between particles and antiparticles is their opposite electric charge . discuss the effect on the spectrum of anti-atoms , and hence the optical appearance of an anti-star .
another thing that 's very similar is the coming of age of teenage boys . male elephants at the age of about 12 to 15 . the biggest elephant in this photograph here is an elephant who 's about the leave the family . he gets too big , he gets a little fresh , the adult females had enough of him , but he also is independent , he wants to go out and play with the guys .	at what age does a male elephant leave his family and join loosely associated or bonded groups of adult males ?	at what age does a male elephant leave his family and join loosely associated or bonded groups of adult males ?
the bigger the mass , the deeper the depression and the stronger the gravity . when the mass making the depression moves , that sends out ripples in space-time . these are gravitationl waves .	which of the following statements is false about space-time ?	which of the following statements is false about space-time ?
so actinium : it ’ s often said about radioactivity that you might be glowing in the dark if you work with radioactive elements . by-and-large it ’ s not true .	regarding its stability , what is the principal difference between the lanthanide and actinide groups ?	regarding its stability , what is the principal difference between the lanthanide and actinide groups ?
in its first five years of operation , cloud has identified the vapors responsible for aerosol particle formation in the atmosphere , which include sulfuric acid , ammonia , amines , and biogenic vapors from trees . using an ionizing particle beam from the cern proton synchrotron , cloud is also investigating if galactic cosmic rays enhance the formation of aerosols in clouds . this has been suggested as a possible unaccounted natural climate forcing agent since the flux of cosmic rays raining down on the atmosphere varies with solar activity .	the cloud experiment is measuring some important unknown physics and chemistry of aerosols and clouds in a large chamber at cern , the european organization for nuclear research . why is it better to do some experiments like these in the laboratory rather than in the real atmosphere ?	the cloud experiment is measuring some important unknown physics and chemistry of aerosols and clouds in a large chamber at cern , the european organization for nuclear research . why is it better to do some experiments like these in the laboratory rather than in the real atmosphere ?
the important thing is to pick one style and stick with it throughout a piece of writing . one more wrinkle . certain pronouns already have possession built in and do n't need an apostrophe .	which of the following is not one of the ways that an apostrophe can be used ?	which of the following is not one of the ways that an apostrophe can be used ?
sunken cities are studied by scientists to help us understand the lives of our ancestors , the dynamic nature of our planet , and the impact of each on the other . water is essential for life , food sources , and transport , so many cities have been built along coast lines and river banks . however , these benefits also come with risks because natural forces that can sink a city are at their doorstep .	one reason that cities are built by the sea is :	one reason that cities are built by the sea is :
and in all fairness that probably did distract from the freckles . explorers soon brought pumpkins back to europe . it was only 1697 when a frenchman incorporated a pumpkin into the popular folktale we know as cinderella .	pumpkins and zucchinis are part of the same ...	pumpkins and zucchinis are part of the same ...
releasing nearly 160 cubic kilometers of rock , ash and gas , the mount tambora eruption was the largest in recorded history , causing as many as 90,000 deaths . but previous eruptions have been even more deadly . the 1600 eruption of peru 's huaynaputina is likely to have triggered the russian famine , that killed nearly two million , while more ancient eruptions have been blamed for major world events , such as the fall of the chinese xia dynasty , the disappearance of the minoan civilization , and even a genetic bottleneck in human evolution that may have resulted from all but a few thousand human beings being wiped out 70,000 years ago .	which aspect of a supervolcanic eruption makes it the most deadly ?	which aspect of a supervolcanic eruption makes it the most deadly ?
releasing nearly 160 cubic kilometers of rock , ash and gas , the mount tambora eruption was the largest in recorded history , causing as many as 90,000 deaths . but previous eruptions have been even more deadly . the 1600 eruption of peru 's huaynaputina is likely to have triggered the russian famine , that killed nearly two million , while more ancient eruptions have been blamed for major world events , such as the fall of the chinese xia dynasty , the disappearance of the minoan civilization , and even a genetic bottleneck in human evolution that may have resulted from all but a few thousand human beings being wiped out 70,000 years ago .	what do past supervolcanic eruptions tell us about human history ?	what do past supervolcanic eruptions tell us about human history ?
so here we have a sample of vanadium . so vanadium is used to do catalysis , it is used for a whole range of different things . so vanadium is the third of the transition metals and , because it has more electrons , it has really quite interesting chemistry .	vanadium is the first metal in the periodic table with several oxidation states . these oxidation states allow different vanadium compounds to have a variety of beautiful colors . what are the oxidation states of vanadium ?	vanadium is the first metal in the periodic table with several oxidation states . these oxidation states allow different vanadium compounds to have a variety of beautiful colors . what are the oxidation states of vanadium ?
they had fought a war against a country with a monarch and were afraid that one man with unchecked powers , in charge of an army , could take over the country . instead , they settled on a president and laid out his powers in article 2 of the constitution . but who would choose him ?	where and when was the constitution written ?	where and when was the constitution written ?
they had fought a war against a country with a monarch and were afraid that one man with unchecked powers , in charge of an army , could take over the country . instead , they settled on a president and laid out his powers in article 2 of the constitution . but who would choose him ?	the powers of the president are laid out in :	the powers of the president are laid out in :
they had fought a war against a country with a monarch and were afraid that one man with unchecked powers , in charge of an army , could take over the country . instead , they settled on a president and laid out his powers in article 2 of the constitution . but who would choose him ?	under the original plan of the constitution the president served for :	under the original plan of the constitution the president served for :
they had fought a war against a country with a monarch and were afraid that one man with unchecked powers , in charge of an army , could take over the country . instead , they settled on a president and laid out his powers in article 2 of the constitution . but who would choose him ?	should the president have any new powers ? should any presidential powers be taken away ?	should the president have any new powers ? should any presidential powers be taken away ?
they had fought a war against a country with a monarch and were afraid that one man with unchecked powers , in charge of an army , could take over the country . instead , they settled on a president and laid out his powers in article 2 of the constitution . but who would choose him ?	under the constitution , the president is now limited to two terms . should we go back to the original plan of unlimited terms ?	under the constitution , the president is now limited to two terms . should we go back to the original plan of unlimited terms ?
beneath your ribs , you 'll find , among other things , the pancreas , an organ that works a lot like a personal health coach . this organ controls your sugar levels and produces a special juice that releases the nutrients from your food to help keep you in the best possible shape . the pancreas sits just behind your stomach , an appropriate home , as one of its jobs is to break down the food you eat .	pancreatic juice contains :	pancreatic juice contains :
he may be no larger than a pin head , but this crab larva is an arrow worm 's worst nightmare . ( bumping noises ) ( buzzing ) epic battles between carnivores like these are just one way to get food . but the real powers of this place come from phytoplankton .	describe some of the structural and behavioral adaptations that zooplankton use to get food .	describe some of the structural and behavioral adaptations that zooplankton use to get food .
she tells her own story in pictures and writing on the walls of her mortuary temple and the red chapel she built for amun . so who committed the crimes against hatshepsut 's memory ? the most popular suspect is her stepson , nephew and co-ruler , thutmose iii .	describe hatshepsut 's path to the throne . create a diagram .	describe hatshepsut 's path to the throne . create a diagram .
she tells her own story in pictures and writing on the walls of her mortuary temple and the red chapel she built for amun . so who committed the crimes against hatshepsut 's memory ? the most popular suspect is her stepson , nephew and co-ruler , thutmose iii .	why were hatshepsut 's monuments destroyed ?	why were hatshepsut 's monuments destroyed ?
imagine an island where 100 people , all perfect logicians , are imprisoned by a mad dictator . there 's no escape , except for one strange rule .	why was it important that all the prisoners were perfect logicians ?	why was it important that all the prisoners were perfect logicians ?
and yet , decades ago , scholars found that it 's theoretically possible to not just spread human civilization across the galaxy , but to do so quite quickly , without breaking any known laws of physics . their idea is based on the work of a mathematician named john von neumann , who designed on paper machines that could self-replicate and create new generations of themselves . these would later come to be known as von neumann machines . in the context of space exploration , von neumann machines could be built on earth and launched into space . there , the self-sufficient machines would land on distant planets .	what mechanisms could be installed in the machines so that they do not go out of control ?	what mechanisms could be installed in the machines so that they do not go out of control ?
translation allows the molecule to move in the direction of any of them . that 's three degrees of freedom . it can also rotate around any of these three axes .	how many rotational ‘ degrees of freedom ’ does a non-linear molecule have ?	how many rotational ‘ degrees of freedom ’ does a non-linear molecule have ?
translation allows the molecule to move in the direction of any of them . that 's three degrees of freedom . it can also rotate around any of these three axes .	a large protein consisting of 94 atoms has ____ vibrational ‘ degrees of freedom . ’	a large protein consisting of 94 atoms has ____ vibrational ‘ degrees of freedom . ’
[ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] there is no attempt to be original . originality 's totally irrelevant . if they look like something else , why not ?	“ there is no attempt to be original . originality is totally irrelevant . if they look like something else - why not ? ” says slobodan . do you agree ?	“ there is no attempt to be original . originality is totally irrelevant . if they look like something else - why not ? ” says slobodan . do you agree ?
frigg loved her son so much that she commanded every plant , animal , and inanimate object to vow they 'd never harm him . in her fervor , however , she overlooked the mistletoe . the mischievous god loki realized this oversight and pierced baldr 's heart with an arrow carved from a mistletoe branch .	the term parasite has a negative connotation . do you think that connotation applies to mistletoe , and can you think of other examples where prejudice arises from poorly understood situations ?	the term parasite has a negative connotation . do you think that connotation applies to mistletoe , and can you think of other examples where prejudice arises from poorly understood situations ?
so there are some elements that one is really fond of and chromium is one of the metals that i really like . it is a metal you would have seen it in many places it is used for plating materials . this may actually be stainless steel but chromium looks very similar and it was very popular for plating bumpers , all sorts of materials in the 1930s up to the 1950s .	the mineral , crocoite , was used as a strong yellow pigment for school buses in the us and for the postal service in europe . what is the composition of this mineral ?	the mineral , crocoite , was used as a strong yellow pigment for school buses in the us and for the postal service in europe . what is the composition of this mineral ?
rather than deciding how language should be used , it describes how people actually use it , and tracks the innovations they come up with in the process . but while the debate between prescriptivism and descriptivism continues , the two are not mutually exclusive . at its best , prescriptivism is useful for informing people about the most common established patterns at a given point in time .	can you think of any ways or situations in which prescriptivism is unhelpful ?	can you think of any ways or situations in which prescriptivism is unhelpful ?
the focus shifted from participation to performance , and the form acquired more theatrical trappings , such as professionally designed sets and a slightly raised platform or stage with curtains and wings . but it was in the 17th century court of louis xiv that ballet was refined into the art we know today . louis himself had been trained in ballet from childhood .	in what ways did louis xiv contribute to ballet ’ s importance in 17th century france ?	in what ways did louis xiv contribute to ballet ’ s importance in 17th century france ?
the focus shifted from participation to performance , and the form acquired more theatrical trappings , such as professionally designed sets and a slightly raised platform or stage with curtains and wings . but it was in the 17th century court of louis xiv that ballet was refined into the art we know today . louis himself had been trained in ballet from childhood .	louis xiv greatly influenced ballet as we know it today . what elements did he introduce that we would still recognize ?	louis xiv greatly influenced ballet as we know it today . what elements did he introduce that we would still recognize ?
have you ever sat in a doctor 's office for hours despite having an appointment at a specific time ? has a hotel turned down your reservation because it 's full ?	the peak of our graph is the :	the peak of our graph is the :
the ruthenium is a very , very reactive metal especially when it is formed in this very fine sponge type material . ruthenium was actually discovered relatively early in the middle of the 19th century . there is some discussion , whether in fact the swedish chemist berzelius analysed something that contained ruthenium and missed it or not , but i am not quite sure about that .	the professor tells us that in his research family tree , we can find a very important 18th through 19th century chemist . who was he ?	the professor tells us that in his research family tree , we can find a very important 18th through 19th century chemist . who was he ?
when asked several months after their accidents how happy they were , they reported levels of happiness approaching their original baseline . so while the hedonic treadmill may inhibit our enjoyment of positive changes , it seems to also enable our resilience in recovering from adversity . there are other reasons that winning the lottery may not make us happier in the long run .	the hedonic adaptation inhibits our enjoyment of positive changes , and it seems to enable our resilience in recovering from adversity . why is this important ?	the hedonic adaptation inhibits our enjoyment of positive changes , and it seems to enable our resilience in recovering from adversity . why is this important ?
there 's a long silence . you 're sure zara remembers the hallway number , but there 's no way for you to know it , and she ca n't say it outloud . if zara could enter the passcode at this point , she would , but instead , she asks for the third clue , and the voice announces that the largest number appears only once in the combination . moments later , the buzz of the electric barrier stops for a few seconds , and you realize that zara has escaped .	in the lesson , zara had to write down 36 as all possible products of 3 natural numbers . instead of 36 , imagine the number was 72. what would be the correct combination of 3 natural numbers zara needs to enter to escape ?	in the lesson , zara had to write down 36 as all possible products of 3 natural numbers . instead of 36 , imagine the number was 72. what would be the correct combination of 3 natural numbers zara needs to enter to escape ?
why do n't we get unicellular elephants , or blue whales , or brown bears ? to find out , we have to peer into a cell 's guts . this is where most of the cell 's functions occur , enclosed by a cellular membrane that acts as the doorway into and out of the cell . any resources the cell needs to consume , or waste products it needs to expel , first have to pass through this membrane .	what part of the cell serves as the doorway into and out of the cell ?	what part of the cell serves as the doorway into and out of the cell ?
but his next design was more advanced , and then more advanced ... until he finally persuaded the train executives that his original , advanced version was acceptable . this is the maya method . he made the surprising feel familiar .	what does maya stand for ?	what does maya stand for ?
acids and bases are everywhere . they 're used to make foods , soaps and detergents , fertilizers , explosives , dyes , plastics , pesticides , even paper .	which of the following statements is true :	which of the following statements is true :
grammar provides a system of rules that tells you how to combine those individual units . productivity is the ability to use language to create an infinite number of messages . and displacement is the ability to talk about things that are n't right in front of you , such as past , future , or fictional events .	`` productivity '' refers to :	`` productivity '' refers to :
it pops up from time to time in the real world , sometimes in important contexts . one study in the uk appeared to show that smokers had a higher survival rate than nonsmokers over a twenty-year time period . that is , until dividing the participants by age group showed that the nonsmokers were significantly older on average , and thus , more likely to die during the trial period , precisely because they were living longer in general .	what was the important factor to consider in the uk study that analyzed smokers and non smokers ?	what was the important factor to consider in the uk study that analyzed smokers and non smokers ?
they traveled west to italy , reintroduced the greek language and learning to western europe , and ignited the renaissance . thanks to constantinople 's walls , that pile of brick and marble that guarded them for so long , we still have our classical past .	brownworth concludes with “ thanks to that pile of brick and marble , we still have our classical past. ” why do you think it needed saving ? why do you think ancient greek and roman learning disappeared from the west ?	brownworth concludes with “ thanks to that pile of brick and marble , we still have our classical past. ” why do you think it needed saving ? why do you think ancient greek and roman learning disappeared from the west ?
they traveled west to italy , reintroduced the greek language and learning to western europe , and ignited the renaissance . thanks to constantinople 's walls , that pile of brick and marble that guarded them for so long , we still have our classical past .	when attila the hun saw the walls of constantinople he	when attila the hun saw the walls of constantinople he
they traveled west to italy , reintroduced the greek language and learning to western europe , and ignited the renaissance . thanks to constantinople 's walls , that pile of brick and marble that guarded them for so long , we still have our classical past .	the walls of constantinople were finally breached by	the walls of constantinople were finally breached by
international collaboration is often needed , too , because fish do n't care about our borders . we need to end overfishing . ecosystems , food security , jobs , economies , and coastal cultures all depend on it .	chilean seabass are especially prone to overfishing because :	chilean seabass are especially prone to overfishing because :
international collaboration is often needed , too , because fish do n't care about our borders . we need to end overfishing . ecosystems , food security , jobs , economies , and coastal cultures all depend on it .	what can individuals do to prevent overfishing ?	what can individuals do to prevent overfishing ?
international collaboration is often needed , too , because fish do n't care about our borders . we need to end overfishing . ecosystems , food security , jobs , economies , and coastal cultures all depend on it .	what can governments do to prevent overfishing ?	what can governments do to prevent overfishing ?
if you visit a museum with a collection of modern and contemporary art , you 're likely to see works that sometimes elicit the response , `` my cat could make that , so how is it art ? '' a movement called abstract expressionism , also known as the new york school , gets this reaction particularly often . abstract expressionism started in 1943 and developed after the end of world war ii . it 's characterized by large , primarily abstract paintings , all-over compositions without clear focal points , and sweeping swaths of paint embodying and eliciting emotions .	what characterizes abstract expressionism ?	what characterizes abstract expressionism ?
if you visit a museum with a collection of modern and contemporary art , you 're likely to see works that sometimes elicit the response , `` my cat could make that , so how is it art ? '' a movement called abstract expressionism , also known as the new york school , gets this reaction particularly often . abstract expressionism started in 1943 and developed after the end of world war ii . it 's characterized by large , primarily abstract paintings , all-over compositions without clear focal points , and sweeping swaths of paint embodying and eliciting emotions .	compare and contrast surrealism with abstract expressionism .	compare and contrast surrealism with abstract expressionism .
some of those come from the communal experience of being on a team , for instance , learning to trust and depend on others , to accept help , to give help , and to work together towards a common goal . in addition , commitment to a team and doing something fun can also make it easier to establish a regular habit of exercise . school sport participation has also been shown to reduce the risk of suffering from depression for up to four years .	which of the following is an effect of cardiovascular exercise ?	which of the following is an effect of cardiovascular exercise ?
and he was right . i mean , you can ’ t measure it with a cup of tea , but most of your mass you owe to e equals mc squared , you owe to the fact that your mass is packed with energy , because of the interactions between the quarks and these gluon fluctuations in that gluon field . i think it is extraordinary , because what we think of as ordinarily empty space , you know , that turns out to be the thing that gives us all most of our mass . i really want to thank audible.com for supporting this episode of veritasium .	the interactions that our quarks ( that make up our protons and neutrons ) have with the gluon field is responsible for most of our mass . why does our video host think this is extraordinary ? ( video hint:6:02 )	the interactions that our quarks ( that make up our protons and neutrons ) have with the gluon field is responsible for most of our mass . why does our video host think this is extraordinary ? ( video hint:6:02 )
these plants and animals belong to a group of about 20 identified species with evolutionary adaptations to rapid climate change , including snapping turtles , wood frogs , knotweed , and silver spotted skipper butterflies . however , scientists hope to discover more species evolving in response to climate change out of 8.7 million species on the planet . for most of our planet 's astounding and precious biodiversity , evolution wo n't be the answer .	how many species have been identified as evolving in response to climate change ?	how many species have been identified as evolving in response to climate change ?
how many times can you fold a piece of paper ? assume that one had a piece of paper that was very fine , like the kind they typically use to print the bible . in reality , it seems like a piece of silk .	do you enjoy working on problems like the one that paenza poses in this lesson ? why or why not ?	do you enjoy working on problems like the one that paenza poses in this lesson ? why or why not ?
sometimes a poem takes a metaphor and extends it , building on one idea in many ways . here 's the beginning of langston hughes ' famous poem `` mother to son . '' `` well , son , i 'll tell you .	the mother in langston hughes ' poem `` mother to son ''	the mother in langston hughes ' poem `` mother to son ''
these local benefits are helpful in the short term , but pollution from mining and burning coal is spread across the entire atmosphere and sticks around for thousands of years . there are other examples , too . littering , water shortages , deforestation , traffic jams , even the purchase of bottled water .	which of the following are both examples of the tragedy of the commons ?	which of the following are both examples of the tragedy of the commons ?
these local benefits are helpful in the short term , but pollution from mining and burning coal is spread across the entire atmosphere and sticks around for thousands of years . there are other examples , too . littering , water shortages , deforestation , traffic jams , even the purchase of bottled water .	of all the examples in the video , which do you think is the most important ? why ?	of all the examples in the video , which do you think is the most important ? why ?
deep underground lies stores of once inaccessible natural gas . this gas was likely formed over millions of years as layers of decaying organisms were exposed to intense heat and pressure under the earth 's crust . there 's a technology called hydraulic fracturing , or fracking , that can extract this natural gas , potentially powering us for decades to come .	what causes the formation of natural gas from layers of decaying organisms ?	what causes the formation of natural gas from layers of decaying organisms ?
you have about 20,000 genes in your dna . they encode the molecules that make up your body , from the keratin in your toenails , to the collagen at the tip of your nose , to the dopamine surging around inside your brain . other species have genes of their own .	what encodes the molecules that make up your body ?	what encodes the molecules that make up your body ?
the first troops moved in single-file along routes used by local ethnic groups , and broken tree branches at dusty crossroads were often all that indicated the direction . initially , most of the communist cadres who came down the trail were southerners by birth who had trained in north vietnam . they dressed like civilian peasants in black , silk pajamas with a checkered scarf .	initially , most of the people that used the trail were southerners by birth that were trained in the north . what would you expect to see them wearing or carrying ?	initially , most of the people that used the trail were southerners by birth that were trained in the north . what would you expect to see them wearing or carrying ?
the area can be defined as the region between the arctic circle and the north pole . if you were to stand at the north pole , everywhere you looked , in all directions , would be south . but standing at the north pole is difficult to do for very long because it 's in the middle of an ocean , covered by constantly shifting , frozen sea ice .	why is the south colder than the north ?	why is the south colder than the north ?
and in my second-year , i think i love boron far too much i think , ‘ cause i talk about it too much . you love boron ? i love boron !	when he was young , what reactants did the professor use to isolate boron ?	when he was young , what reactants did the professor use to isolate boron ?
out of the 36 possible combinations , 16 give the victory to player one , and 20 give player two the win . you could think about it this way , too . the only way player one can win is if both dice show a one , two , three or four .	you can simulate some matches of this game at the following website : http : //scratch.mit.edu/projects/45073190/ . after simulating a few matches , who do you think has an advantage in this game ? why ?	you can simulate some matches of this game at the following website : http : //scratch.mit.edu/projects/45073190/ . after simulating a few matches , who do you think has an advantage in this game ? why ?
so it 's a risk to turn our eyes outwards . we risk our very way of life . but it may be a greater risk not to look , to deny the very pioneering spirits that help shape our own species .	any life we find elsewhere in the universe could look like anything , from the tiniest microbes , all the way to humans , or even more evolved . if there is extraterrestrial life out there that is more evolved than humans , what kind of evolutionary “ improvements ” do you think that life would have made ?	any life we find elsewhere in the universe could look like anything , from the tiniest microbes , all the way to humans , or even more evolved . if there is extraterrestrial life out there that is more evolved than humans , what kind of evolutionary “ improvements ” do you think that life would have made ?
and once you understand his theory of what makes things cool , you ’ ll see it everywhere . raymond loewy was an industrial engineer who did more than maybe any other person to shape the look of america in the 20th century . his designs are everywhere : logos , trains , buses , kitchens , even outer space .	who was the industrial engineer mentioned in this video and said to be the creator of the look of america in the 20th century ?	who was the industrial engineer mentioned in this video and said to be the creator of the look of america in the 20th century ?
the heightened workout a bilingual brain receives throughout its life can also help delay the onset of diseases , like alzheimer 's and dementia by as much as five years . the idea of major cognitive benefits to bilingualism may seem intuitive now , but it would have surprised earlier experts . before the 1960s , bilingualism was considered a handicap that slowed a child 's development by forcing them to spend too much energy distinguishing between languages , a view based largely on flawed studies .	what was the common perception of bilingualism before the 1960 ’ s ? why did this change ?	what was the common perception of bilingualism before the 1960 ’ s ? why did this change ?
and multiple species of t-rex-sized carnivorous dinosaurs called theropods , lived side by side . in the river of giants , spinosaurus was king . this 15-meter-long dinosaur was even longer than t-rex , with short muscular hind legs , a flexible tail , and broad feet .	the river of giants was a particularly dangerous place because :	the river of giants was a particularly dangerous place because :
we do know that the total amount of all the different types of energy in the universe is always the same . and , for chemists , two important types of energy are chemical potential energy and kinetic energy . potential energy is energy waiting to happen .	kinetic energy is ________ .	kinetic energy is ________ .
what do a seventeen-year-old pakistani , a norwegian explorer , a tibetan monk , and an american pastor have in common ? they were all awarded the nobel peace prize . among the top prestigious awards in the world , this prize has honored some of the most celebrated and revered international figures and organizations in history .	when does the nobel peace prize ceremony take place ?	when does the nobel peace prize ceremony take place ?
what do a seventeen-year-old pakistani , a norwegian explorer , a tibetan monk , and an american pastor have in common ? they were all awarded the nobel peace prize . among the top prestigious awards in the world , this prize has honored some of the most celebrated and revered international figures and organizations in history .	where is the nobel peace prize awarded ?	where is the nobel peace prize awarded ?
what do a seventeen-year-old pakistani , a norwegian explorer , a tibetan monk , and an american pastor have in common ? they were all awarded the nobel peace prize . among the top prestigious awards in the world , this prize has honored some of the most celebrated and revered international figures and organizations in history .	who didn ’ t receive the nobel peace prize ?	who didn ’ t receive the nobel peace prize ?
so krypton is one of the noble gases , it ’ s not very reactive but it does react with the element fluorine . jim turner , who was my supervisor when i did my doctorate , was the first person to discover that fluorine could react with krypton but even that reaction requires quite bright lights to break the bond between the fluorine atoms to get them to react . but krypton can also be used in lasers when mixtures of krypton and of fluorine-containing compound can be used to generate very bright pulses or intense pulses of ultraviolet light . some years ago we had a professor here who bought a really big krypton-fluoride laser and when he switched it on and the beam hit the wall it burnt a hole right through the wall so he knew where to make the hole to get his beam into the next lab .	can krypton react with any elements in the periodic table ?	can krypton react with any elements in the periodic table ?
so krypton is one of the noble gases , it ’ s not very reactive but it does react with the element fluorine . jim turner , who was my supervisor when i did my doctorate , was the first person to discover that fluorine could react with krypton but even that reaction requires quite bright lights to break the bond between the fluorine atoms to get them to react . but krypton can also be used in lasers when mixtures of krypton and of fluorine-containing compound can be used to generate very bright pulses or intense pulses of ultraviolet light . some years ago we had a professor here who bought a really big krypton-fluoride laser and when he switched it on and the beam hit the wall it burnt a hole right through the wall so he knew where to make the hole to get his beam into the next lab .	what color do krypton atoms emit when excited in a low-pressure glass tube ?	what color do krypton atoms emit when excited in a low-pressure glass tube ?
this makes it sound like evolution always favors the biggest , strongest , or fastest creatures , which is not really the case . for one thing , evolutionary fitness is just a matter of how well-suited they are to their current environment . if all the tall trees suddenly died out and only short grass was left , all those long-necked giraffes would be at a disadvantage .	why are humans not ideally adapted to their current environment ?	why are humans not ideally adapted to their current environment ?
this makes it sound like evolution always favors the biggest , strongest , or fastest creatures , which is not really the case . for one thing , evolutionary fitness is just a matter of how well-suited they are to their current environment . if all the tall trees suddenly died out and only short grass was left , all those long-necked giraffes would be at a disadvantage .	elephants who are past reproductive age often lose their teeth in old age , then slowly starve to death as a result . explain why there is no evolutionary pressure for this terrible and seemingly maladaptive situation to change .	elephants who are past reproductive age often lose their teeth in old age , then slowly starve to death as a result . explain why there is no evolutionary pressure for this terrible and seemingly maladaptive situation to change .
just as daedalus had many times ignored the consequences of defying the natural laws of mortal men in the service of his ego , icarus was also carried away by his own hubris . in the end , both men paid for their departure from the path of moderation dearly , icarus with his life and daedalus with his regret .	veering from the “ path of moderation ” can be both good and bad . reflect on this thought and respond .	veering from the “ path of moderation ” can be both good and bad . reflect on this thought and respond .
as you can see , i was born without fingers on my right hand . and also my right leg was several inches shorter than my left one .	why did steven require surgery ?	why did steven require surgery ?
as you can see , i was born without fingers on my right hand . and also my right leg was several inches shorter than my left one .	which professional athlete did steven mention ?	which professional athlete did steven mention ?
but how does a simple molecule dictate the form and function of millions of different living things ? you can think of dna as a great library of information , information that is used to do one thing and one thing only : direct the building of different protein molecules . and it 's the proteins that build the cells and keep them functioning and changing and reproducing .	you can think of dna as a great library of information that exists to do one thing only . what is that thing ?	you can think of dna as a great library of information that exists to do one thing only . what is that thing ?
who can say `` no '' to them , right ? when i was six years old , i received my gifts . my first grade teacher had this brilliant idea .	what happened to jua jiang when he was six years old ? how did it make him feel ?	what happened to jua jiang when he was six years old ? how did it make him feel ?
planets are not the only places astrobiologists are looking at . for example , europa , one of the moons of jupiter , and enceladus and titan , two of saturn 's moons , are all exciting possibilities . although these moons are extremely cold and two are covered in thick ice , there is evidence of liquid oceans beneath the shell . could life be floating around in these oceans , or could it be living around black smoker vents at the bottom ?	the moons of europa and enceladus are very cold , covered with ice and may have a liquid ocean inside them . what kind of life might be living in these moons , and where might it be ?	the moons of europa and enceladus are very cold , covered with ice and may have a liquid ocean inside them . what kind of life might be living in these moons , and where might it be ?
botanists use multiple photographs to show the life cycle of plants and how flowers turn over the course of a few hours to follow the sun in what is called phototropism , growing towards the light . mathematicians have used photos to look at where in the twists and turns of a whip the crack sound comes when the whip is breaking the sound barrier . meteorologists and environmental scientists show the growth of major hurricanes and the recession over the years of many of the world 's glaciers .	who used photos to show how horses run ?	who used photos to show how horses run ?
botanists use multiple photographs to show the life cycle of plants and how flowers turn over the course of a few hours to follow the sun in what is called phototropism , growing towards the light . mathematicians have used photos to look at where in the twists and turns of a whip the crack sound comes when the whip is breaking the sound barrier . meteorologists and environmental scientists show the growth of major hurricanes and the recession over the years of many of the world 's glaciers .	what is happening when the whip makes a crack sound ?	what is happening when the whip makes a crack sound ?
we can only observe individual stars up to about 40,000,000 light years away , after which they become too blurry to resolve . but luckily we have another type of standard candle : the famous type 1a supernova . supernovae , giant stellar explosions are one of the ways that stars die . these explosions are so bright , that they outshine the galaxies where they occur .	besides type ia supernovae , which are usually due to less massive stars , there are other types of supernovae such as type ii supernovae that are due to more massive stars . why are n't the other types of supernovae used as standard candles ? do a search on the internet and discuss the most recent recorded supernovae in both the milky way galaxy and the andromeda galaxy . what type of supernovae are they ?	besides type ia supernovae , which are usually due to less massive stars , there are other types of supernovae such as type ii supernovae that are due to more massive stars . why are n't the other types of supernovae used as standard candles ? do a search on the internet and discuss the most recent recorded supernovae in both the milky way galaxy and the andromeda galaxy . what type of supernovae are they ?
no idea how this may play out . i have an interest in education . actually , what i find is everybody has an interest in education .	why does sir ken believe everyone has a vested interest in education ?	why does sir ken believe everyone has a vested interest in education ?
and this increased energy lets us expand and build on a larger scale . a truly advanced civilization , then , would harness both stellar energy and subatomic technologies . but these predictions were n't made just for us humans .	what could be a sign of stellar engineering from advanced extraterrestrials ?	what could be a sign of stellar engineering from advanced extraterrestrials ?
using the tools at their disposal , they 'll eliminate everything but the most useful and reliable information . there are many different ways of approaching critical thinking , but here 's one five-step process that may help you solve any number of problems . one : formulate your question .	what is the first step ( of five ) in the critical thinking process ?	what is the first step ( of five ) in the critical thinking process ?
using the tools at their disposal , they 'll eliminate everything but the most useful and reliable information . there are many different ways of approaching critical thinking , but here 's one five-step process that may help you solve any number of problems . one : formulate your question .	silently reflect on an upcoming choice you may encounter in the future . compose a paragraph ( 5 sentences maximum ) that discusses how you will employ the critical thinking to enhance your decision-making process . be specific about how you would apply at least three of the five steps mentioned in the video .	silently reflect on an upcoming choice you may encounter in the future . compose a paragraph ( 5 sentences maximum ) that discusses how you will employ the critical thinking to enhance your decision-making process . be specific about how you would apply at least three of the five steps mentioned in the video .
modern instances of plague also tend to remain localized , or travel slowly , as they are spread by rodent fleas . but the medieval black death , which spread like wildfire , was most likely communicated directly from one person to another . and because genetic comparisons of ancient to modern strains of yersinia pestis have not revealed any significantly functional genetic differences , the key to why the earlier outbreak was so much deadlier must lie not in the parasite but the host .	how was the black death likely spread ?	how was the black death likely spread ?
computer simulators run thousands of different landing scenarios , mixing and matching values for all of the variables . weighing all the possibilities , the computer spits out the potential area of impact in the form of a landing ellipse . in 1976 , the landing ellipse for the mars viking lander was 62 x 174 miles , nearly the area of new jersey .	you are setting up a drill to make a hole in a circuit board . which of the following is not a potential advantage of your efforts ?	you are setting up a drill to make a hole in a circuit board . which of the following is not a potential advantage of your efforts ?
he did not survive . and so when she came out of auschwitz , she made a vow . she said , `` i walked out of auschwitz into life . and the vow was , `` i will never say anything that could n't stand as the last thing i ever say . ''	what is the vow that the sister made when she walked out of auschwitz ?	what is the vow that the sister made when she walked out of auschwitz ?
( laughter ) clearly , these people were not really dead . heh , they were vampires ! and they had been leaving their graves to feast on the living .	what is the one shared trait of all vampires ?	what is the one shared trait of all vampires ?
30 million years ago , the majority of the farallon plate sinks into the mantle , leaving behind only small corners still subducting . the pacific and north american plates converge and a new boundary called the san andreas fault forms . here , north america moves to the south , sliding against the pacific plate , which shifts to the north .	at what rate is the san andreas fault currently moving per year ?	at what rate is the san andreas fault currently moving per year ?
that is completely false . if you experience math anxiety , it may not help to just know that math anxiety exists . or perhaps it 's reassuring to put a name to the problem .	research in psychology , neurosciences , and education has revealed techniques that can reduce math anxiety . name 3 different techniques that might help in reducing math anxiety and explain how they can improve math performance .	research in psychology , neurosciences , and education has revealed techniques that can reduce math anxiety . name 3 different techniques that might help in reducing math anxiety and explain how they can improve math performance .
that is completely false . if you experience math anxiety , it may not help to just know that math anxiety exists . or perhaps it 's reassuring to put a name to the problem .	why is it important to reduce the number of math anxious people in western society ? why is it important to reduce math anxiety in one 's own life ?	why is it important to reduce the number of math anxious people in western society ? why is it important to reduce math anxiety in one 's own life ?
that is completely false . if you experience math anxiety , it may not help to just know that math anxiety exists . or perhaps it 's reassuring to put a name to the problem .	math anxiety may be the result of :	math anxiety may be the result of :
that is completely false . if you experience math anxiety , it may not help to just know that math anxiety exists . or perhaps it 's reassuring to put a name to the problem .	since math anxiety is ______ and is frequently associated with ____ math skills , it is vital to understand what it is .	since math anxiety is ______ and is frequently associated with ____ math skills , it is vital to understand what it is .
that is completely false . if you experience math anxiety , it may not help to just know that math anxiety exists . or perhaps it 's reassuring to put a name to the problem .	math anxiety may hinder mathematical achievements since :	math anxiety may hinder mathematical achievements since :
that is completely false . if you experience math anxiety , it may not help to just know that math anxiety exists . or perhaps it 's reassuring to put a name to the problem .	is math anxiety a different name for `` being bad at math '' ?	is math anxiety a different name for `` being bad at math '' ?
except , not really . like , when did world war ii start ? in september 1939 , when the nazis invaded poland ?	depending on how you view the origins of world war ii , there are multiple events that `` started '' the war . which of the following timelines has those events in the correct order ?	depending on how you view the origins of world war ii , there are multiple events that `` started '' the war . which of the following timelines has those events in the correct order ?
except , not really . like , when did world war ii start ? in september 1939 , when the nazis invaded poland ?	why do you think the battle of stalingrad helped turn world war ii in the allies ' favor ?	why do you think the battle of stalingrad helped turn world war ii in the allies ' favor ?
except , not really . like , when did world war ii start ? in september 1939 , when the nazis invaded poland ?	why does john green suggest that food was the driving cause of world war ii ?	why does john green suggest that food was the driving cause of world war ii ?
cases like that prove that humans can develop permanent lifesaving traits . but natural adaptation for entire human populations could take tens of thousands of years . recent scientific advances may help us accelerate human adaptation to single generations .	which of the following is a super-trait that some human populations have evolved ?	which of the following is a super-trait that some human populations have evolved ?
in the 1950s , a group of ranchers in idaho were baffled when their sheep gave birth to lambs with a singular deformity . mystified by these cyclops sheep , they called in scientists from the u.s. department of agriculture to investigate . the researchers hypothesized that the pregnant ewes had snacked on poisonous birth defect-causing plants . they collected the local flora and fed samples to lab rats , but struggled to replicate the effect .	scientists discovered that the cyclops sheep deformity was caused by pregnant ewes eating :	scientists discovered that the cyclops sheep deformity was caused by pregnant ewes eating :
have these technologies bread some kind of unique , contemporary experience , and are earworms just a product of the late 20th century ? the answer comes from an unlikely source : mark twain . in 1876 , just one year before the phonograph was invented , he wrote a short story imagining a sinister takeover of an entire town by a rhyming jingle .	a story by mark twain is one piece of evidence that :	a story by mark twain is one piece of evidence that :
we ca n't control other people , we do n't control life , but is there some relationship between what we put out and what comes back ? freedom before i came here was just another word . i had never been to prison before .	one prisoner explained , `` freedom before i came here was just another word . '' maull believes that freedom can be found while being in prison . what does freedom mean to you ?	one prisoner explained , `` freedom before i came here was just another word . '' maull believes that freedom can be found while being in prison . what does freedom mean to you ?
[ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] [ silent crescendo ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] a drink this beautiful of chinese pu-ehr tea . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] the element of slowing down . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] the tea allows us to breathe , to move .	what is the significance of slowing down when slobodan creates his drawings ? what happens ?	what is the significance of slowing down when slobodan creates his drawings ? what happens ?
they all came into being to meet the needs of industrialism . so the hierarchy is rooted on two ideas . number one , that the most useful subjects for work are at the top .	what two ideas were the hierarchy of subjects based upon ?	what two ideas were the hierarchy of subjects based upon ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar ever see a medieval painting of baby jesus sitting or standing on his mother 's lap and wonder why she 's so large ? paintings like cimabue 's enthroned madonna with angels or duccio 's maesta also appear out of proportion . if mary were to stand up , it seems , the angels in the picture would be as tall as her shin bone , and her torso would be disproportionately small when compared to her legs .	what prominent figure in medieval paintings was commonly painted out of proportion ?	what prominent figure in medieval paintings was commonly painted out of proportion ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar ever see a medieval painting of baby jesus sitting or standing on his mother 's lap and wonder why she 's so large ? paintings like cimabue 's enthroned madonna with angels or duccio 's maesta also appear out of proportion . if mary were to stand up , it seems , the angels in the picture would be as tall as her shin bone , and her torso would be disproportionately small when compared to her legs .	what 's the best reason ( or the best reasons ) cimabue and duccio painted a veiled , disproportionate mary ?	what 's the best reason ( or the best reasons ) cimabue and duccio painted a veiled , disproportionate mary ?
in the summer of 1963 , a high school teacher changed the way the world looked at `` the wizard of oz . '' his name was henry littlefield , and he was teaching an american history class . he 'd made it to the late 19th century , a time called the gilded age , but he was struggling to keep his class interested in the complex social and economic issues of the time .	who was the high school history teacher who first suggested that `` the wonderful wizard of oz '' reflected certain aspects of american culture and politics ?	who was the high school history teacher who first suggested that `` the wonderful wizard of oz '' reflected certain aspects of american culture and politics ?
( cheering ) his 15-year-old brother is coming of age . half the children in ancient rome die before they reach adulthood , so this is a particularly important milestone . lucius watches his brother stand in his new toga before the household shrine with its protective deities , as he places his bulla , a protective amulet , in the shrine with a prayer of thanks .	in ancient rome , what percentage of children died before reaching adulthood ?	in ancient rome , what percentage of children died before reaching adulthood ?
the delaware indians of what is now the northeast united states , were divided into three subgroups , distinguished by their animal totems : the turkey , the turtle , and the wolf . members of the tribe belonging to the wolf totem were often referred to by the indigenous word for the four-footed canine , p'tuksit . in the 18th century , europeans who settled in the former region of the p'tuksit anglicized the name as `` tuxedo '' and slapped it on a town in southeast new york .	what does it mean to anglicize a word ?	what does it mean to anglicize a word ?
the delaware indians of what is now the northeast united states , were divided into three subgroups , distinguished by their animal totems : the turkey , the turtle , and the wolf . members of the tribe belonging to the wolf totem were often referred to by the indigenous word for the four-footed canine , p'tuksit . in the 18th century , europeans who settled in the former region of the p'tuksit anglicized the name as `` tuxedo '' and slapped it on a town in southeast new york .	what is the indigenous word for the four footed canine ?	what is the indigenous word for the four footed canine ?
the initiator ? an industrious enzyme named rubisco that welds one carbon atom from a co2 molecule with the rubp chain to build an initial six carbon sequence . that rapidly splits into two shorter chains containing three carbons each and called phosphoglycerates , or pgas , for short .	in addition to being highly abundant in chloroplasts , rubisco is the most abundant enzyme on the planet . what reasons can you think of to explain why this might be the case ? what might this be important for ?	in addition to being highly abundant in chloroplasts , rubisco is the most abundant enzyme on the planet . what reasons can you think of to explain why this might be the case ? what might this be important for ?
this equation states that the height of a falling object above a surface is equal to the object 's initial height from the surface plus its initial velocity multiplied by how many seconds it 's been in the air , plus half of the gravitational acceleration multiplied by the square of the number of seconds spent in the air . now we can use this equation to model mj 's free throw dunk . say mj starts , as one does , at zero meters off the ground , and jumps with an initial vertical velocity of 4.51 meters per second .	the equation 0=-4.9 ( 0 ) ^2+4.51 ( 0 ) represents which moment in michael jordan ’ s free-throw dunk ?	the equation 0=-4.9 ( 0 ) ^2+4.51 ( 0 ) represents which moment in michael jordan ’ s free-throw dunk ?
they would draw extravagant pictures in the foam of the tea , very much like the espresso art you might see in coffee shops today . in the 9th century during the tang dynasty , a japanese monk brought the first tea plant to japan . the japanese eventually developed their own unique rituals around tea , leading to the creation of the japanese tea ceremony .	in what chinese dynasty was the tea plant first transported to japan ?	in what chinese dynasty was the tea plant first transported to japan ?
and that just ruins everything . so , most of the time claw machines are more like slot machines , than like skeeball or wack-a-mole . `` who 's in charge here ! ''	the first claw machines were explicitly marketed as highly profitable for owners . when were they invented and why were they so popular at the time ?	the first claw machines were explicitly marketed as highly profitable for owners . when were they invented and why were they so popular at the time ?
due to these influences , the once spontaneous , one-act dance evolved into a structured , five-act play often based on the tenets of confucian philosophy . before 1868 , when the tokugawa shogunate fell and emperor meiji was restored to power , japan had practiced isolation from other countries , or sakoku . and thus , the development of kabuki had mostly been shaped by domestic influences .	when the tokugawa shogunate fell , what emperor rose to power , and thus , opened japan ’ s ports to the rest of the world ?	when the tokugawa shogunate fell , what emperor rose to power , and thus , opened japan ’ s ports to the rest of the world ?
if insects suddenly morphed into large beings , and decided to wage war on us , there 's no doubt that humans would lose . we 'd simply be crushed by their sheer numbers .	insects , unlike humans and other vertebrates , have an exoskeleton . this means their skeleton is on the outside instead of the inside , like us . how do you think insects manage to grow bigger if they are encased in an exoskeleton ?	insects , unlike humans and other vertebrates , have an exoskeleton . this means their skeleton is on the outside instead of the inside , like us . how do you think insects manage to grow bigger if they are encased in an exoskeleton ?
but of late when the water has become scarce we do n't get a lot of help from the people who want the food that we grow . this year probably two-thirds to half of our farm has not been put into cultivation because of lack of water . without food production , there 's no jobs out in the rural communities .	how much of the farmer 's land was not put into cultivation this past year due to the drought ?	how much of the farmer 's land was not put into cultivation this past year due to the drought ?
for example , homer 's odysseus , after an epic 20-year-long journey , returns home to ithaca and reunites with his faithful wife . in contrast , joyce 's bloom wanders around dublin for a day and returns home to his unfaithful wife . it 's a very funny book .	why is joyce ’ s precise and accurate representation of the details of dublin such an impressive feat ?	why is joyce ’ s precise and accurate representation of the details of dublin such an impressive feat ?
although many musicians agree that music is a language , it is rarely treated as such . many of us treat it as something that can only be learned by following a strict regimen , under the tutelage of a skilled teacher . this approach has been followed for hundreds of years with proven success , but it takes a long time .	what does wooten say about following a strict regiment under the tutelage of a skilled teacher ?	what does wooten say about following a strict regiment under the tutelage of a skilled teacher ?
scientists needed another way . while electric fields would make a particle go faster , magnetic fields make them move in a circular path . if you put an electric field along the circle , you do n't need to use miles of electric fields , you can use a single electric field over and over again .	practical high energy particle accelerators make the particles move in what shape ?	practical high energy particle accelerators make the particles move in what shape ?
and if we want to count higher , we can use the digits on our other hand to keep track of each time we get to twelve , up to five groups of twelve , or 60 . better yet , let 's use the sections on the second hand to count twelve groups of twelve , up to 144 . that 's a pretty big improvement , but we can go higher by finding more countable parts on each hand .	the third number within a third group of twelve is 27. what is the fifth number within a fifth group of twelve ?	the third number within a third group of twelve is 27. what is the fifth number within a fifth group of twelve ?
if you run water into the right ventricle from a tap ( the left also works , but less spectacularly ) , you 'll see that the ventricular valve tries to close against the incoming stream . and then ventricle inflates with water . squeeze the ventricle and a stream of water squirts out of the pulmonary artery . the ventricular valves , called the tricuspid in the right ventricle and the mitral in the left , can be seen through the clear water opening and closing like parachutes as the ventricle is rhythmically squeezed .	when you compress the heart in this demonstration , why does the water squirt out of the artery ?	when you compress the heart in this demonstration , why does the water squirt out of the artery ?
as it turns out , at my walking speed , it takes two seconds to get past each fence post , and they 're spaced four meters apart . so we can calculate my velocity -- how fast i 'm moving through space - - is two meters per second . but i could 've worked that out from the panels without flipping through them .	we showed worldlines for single objects moving at constant speeds . what about the worldlines of two objects colliding with each other ? how would you represent these on a spacetime diagram ? what happens at the end of a worldline ?	we showed worldlines for single objects moving at constant speeds . what about the worldlines of two objects colliding with each other ? how would you represent these on a spacetime diagram ? what happens at the end of a worldline ?
as it turns out , at my walking speed , it takes two seconds to get past each fence post , and they 're spaced four meters apart . so we can calculate my velocity -- how fast i 'm moving through space - - is two meters per second . but i could 've worked that out from the panels without flipping through them .	when drawn a spacetime diagram , something that is not moving looks like	when drawn a spacetime diagram , something that is not moving looks like
ecosystem , species and genetic diversity together form the complex tangled weave of biodiversity that is vital for the survival of organisms on earth . we humans are woven into this biodiversity , too . when just a few strands are lost , our own well-being is threatened .	humans have cut and frayed the woven tapestry of earth ’ s biodiversity . list and describe three ways .	humans have cut and frayed the woven tapestry of earth ’ s biodiversity . list and describe three ways .
i was like , `` what ? i 'm not going to go to the initiation camps . '' you know what the women said to me ?	why did memory refuse to participate in the orientation camps ?	why did memory refuse to participate in the orientation camps ?
and it 's not just good for puzzle solving . group theory is deeply embedded in music , as well . one way to visualize a chord is to write out all twelve musical notes and draw a square within them .	what other areas might the principles of group theory explain besides music ?	what other areas might the principles of group theory explain besides music ?
osteoclasts break down the unneeded mineral lattice using acids and enzymes so that osteoblasts can then add more material . one of the main reasons astronauts must exercise constantly in orbit is due to the lack of skeletal strain in free fall . as projected by wolff 's law , that makes osteoclasts more active than osteoblasts , resulting in a loss of bone mass and strength .	the reasons astronauts must constantly exercise in orbit is due to _____ .	the reasons astronauts must constantly exercise in orbit is due to _____ .
this mindset probably made it easier for the spartan boys , who upon turning seven , were sent to the agoge , a place with one main purpose : to turn a boy into a spartan warrior through thirteen years of relentless , harsh , and often brutal training . the spartans prized physical perfection above all else , and so the students spent a great deal of their time learning how to fight . to ensure resilience in battle , boys were encouraged to fight among themselves , and bullying , unlike today , was acceptable .	the spartans prized physical perfection above all else . which of the following did teachers at the agoge not encourage ?	the spartans prized physical perfection above all else . which of the following did teachers at the agoge not encourage ?
if you spent any time on earth you might have noticed that humans are not the most rational creatures we make decisions based mostly on emotions instead of facts and a lot of times we 're guided by tribal instinct part of the problem is that the human brain evolved to help us survive and not necessarily to help us be factually accurate so we often respond better to social and tribal dynamics than to intellectual analysis for example if someone 's tribe believes that obama is a secret muslim born in kenya that person probably thinks the hard proof of his us birth certificate is fake that conclusion is neither rational nor accurate but from a tribal perspective it makes sense it 's safer to agree with your tribe and stay united ideologically even if you 're wrong about the facts than to disagree and isolate yourself another part of the problem is that our brain is constantly protecting our worldview and sense of identity so when our worldview is challenged that same part of the brain that processes physical danger gets activated this is why people sometimes react so aggressively to information that proves them wrong and this is why it 's often so hard to have an intelligent political debate several studies have also shown that there is a backfire effect that happens when people encounter facts that contradict their current beliefs they actually become more convinced of their original ideas so fighting ignorant with facts is like fighting a grease fire with water it seems like it should work but it actually just makes the whole thing work lastly there 's the problem of lack of empathy several studies have found that when humans are divided into groups of any kind we instinctively become less and pathetic to members of other groups that means that for survivals sake we men instinctively empathize less with other races other nationalities and even though their sports teams this instinctive the humanization of other groups is what makes things like slavery and genocide possible in our society so what can you do if you want someone to consider factual information that clashes with their beliefs first you have to prevent their brain from seeing you as a personal threat so look for ways to identify the person as part of your tribe and you as part of theirs hey we 're part of the same family hey we 're both parents hey we both still play pokemon go whatever anything that communicates that you 're part of the same that 's the first step second consider the possibility that you may be wrong maybe the facts are not on your side in which case admitting it will help you model to the other person that it 's okay to be wrong i understand that none of this is easy or smooth but if we want to continue to function as a stable society we have to learn to get past our own natural biases only when that happens we will be able to move forward towards a better future	briefly describe a few reasons cited in the video for why humans do n't tend to be convinced by facts .	briefly describe a few reasons cited in the video for why humans do n't tend to be convinced by facts .
if you spent any time on earth you might have noticed that humans are not the most rational creatures we make decisions based mostly on emotions instead of facts and a lot of times we 're guided by tribal instinct part of the problem is that the human brain evolved to help us survive and not necessarily to help us be factually accurate so we often respond better to social and tribal dynamics than to intellectual analysis for example if someone 's tribe believes that obama is a secret muslim born in kenya that person probably thinks the hard proof of his us birth certificate is fake that conclusion is neither rational nor accurate but from a tribal perspective it makes sense it 's safer to agree with your tribe and stay united ideologically even if you 're wrong about the facts than to disagree and isolate yourself another part of the problem is that our brain is constantly protecting our worldview and sense of identity so when our worldview is challenged that same part of the brain that processes physical danger gets activated this is why people sometimes react so aggressively to information that proves them wrong and this is why it 's often so hard to have an intelligent political debate several studies have also shown that there is a backfire effect that happens when people encounter facts that contradict their current beliefs they actually become more convinced of their original ideas so fighting ignorant with facts is like fighting a grease fire with water it seems like it should work but it actually just makes the whole thing work lastly there 's the problem of lack of empathy several studies have found that when humans are divided into groups of any kind we instinctively become less and pathetic to members of other groups that means that for survivals sake we men instinctively empathize less with other races other nationalities and even though their sports teams this instinctive the humanization of other groups is what makes things like slavery and genocide possible in our society so what can you do if you want someone to consider factual information that clashes with their beliefs first you have to prevent their brain from seeing you as a personal threat so look for ways to identify the person as part of your tribe and you as part of theirs hey we 're part of the same family hey we 're both parents hey we both still play pokemon go whatever anything that communicates that you 're part of the same that 's the first step second consider the possibility that you may be wrong maybe the facts are not on your side in which case admitting it will help you model to the other person that it 's okay to be wrong i understand that none of this is easy or smooth but if we want to continue to function as a stable society we have to learn to get past our own natural biases only when that happens we will be able to move forward towards a better future	what two tips does the video offer if you want someone to consider factual information that clashes with their beliefs ?	what two tips does the video offer if you want someone to consider factual information that clashes with their beliefs ?
now , shapes get more complicated as you increase the number of atoms . all the examples we just talked about had one obviously central atom , but most molecules , from relatively small pharmaceuticals all the way up to long polymers like dna or proteins , do n't . the key thing to remember is that bonded atoms will arrange themselves to maximize the attraction between opposite charges and minimize the repulsion between like charges .	the optimal way to arrange a molecule having four regions of electron density surrounding a central atom looks most like	the optimal way to arrange a molecule having four regions of electron density surrounding a central atom looks most like
it features some of the highest and lowest notes in opera , day and night , simple hummable melodies and complicated forward-looking music . the opera 's central theme concerns balancing these extremes to achieve perfect harmony . to reflect this , the final chord in the opening restores musical order .	the point of this opera is the balancing of extremes to achieve perfect harmony . what are some of the extremes represented in the opera and how are they balanced ?	the point of this opera is the balancing of extremes to achieve perfect harmony . what are some of the extremes represented in the opera and how are they balanced ?
in fact , hundreds of years ago , long before photography could capture the moment , japanese fishermen invented their own way to record trophy catches . they called it gyotaku . gyotaku is the ancient art of printing fish that originated in japan as a way to record trophy catches prior to the modern day camera .	what was the original purpose for gyotaku ?	what was the original purpose for gyotaku ?
in fact , hundreds of years ago , long before photography could capture the moment , japanese fishermen invented their own way to record trophy catches . they called it gyotaku . gyotaku is the ancient art of printing fish that originated in japan as a way to record trophy catches prior to the modern day camera .	what are the two words that make up the word gyotaku ?	what are the two words that make up the word gyotaku ?
they would unify the entire audience ; and no matter where you sat , you could laugh at what was going on onstage . words , specifically dialogue in a drama setting , are used for many different reasons : to set the mood of the scene , to give some more atmosphere to the setting , and to develop relationships between characters . insults do this in a very short and sharp way .	what is the purpose of dialogue in drama ?	what is the purpose of dialogue in drama ?
and immediately starts again . only now , she 's not crying reflex tears but emotional tears . when someone is either too sad or too happy , it feels like a loss of control , which can be dangerous .	which of the following is not one of the functions of the aqueous layer in tears ?	which of the following is not one of the functions of the aqueous layer in tears ?
and immediately starts again . only now , she 's not crying reflex tears but emotional tears . when someone is either too sad or too happy , it feels like a loss of control , which can be dangerous .	why are emotional tears triggered by happiness as well as sadness ?	why are emotional tears triggered by happiness as well as sadness ?
and immediately starts again . only now , she 's not crying reflex tears but emotional tears . when someone is either too sad or too happy , it feels like a loss of control , which can be dangerous .	reflex tears do all of the following except :	reflex tears do all of the following except :
as its imperial government collapsed , civil unrest and worker strikes spread across the nation . fearing a communist revolution , major parties joined to suppress the uprisings , establishing the parliamentary weimar republic . one of the new government 's first tasks was implementing the peace treaty imposed by the allies .	why was the weimar republic immediately unpopular with the german people ?	why was the weimar republic immediately unpopular with the german people ?
hi , i 'm medium invader from the classic video game space invaders , and i want to tell you a little bit about where video games came from . a video game is an electronic game that has an interface designed for human interaction on a video device . simple .	________ , the inventor of the first game console , is also known as the father of video games .	________ , the inventor of the first game console , is also known as the father of video games .
in the aerobic , or oxygen-dependent pathway , the yeast consume some of the sugar and produce carbon dioxide gas , or co2 , and water . in both processes , the co2 accumulates and creates tiny bubbles . these bubbles get trapped by gluten and create a sponge-like structure that gives the bread its soft texture .	all these dishes have a general concept behind them -- applying biological processes in order to make a product . can you think of everyday products outside the kitchen being made using biological processes ?	all these dishes have a general concept behind them -- applying biological processes in order to make a product . can you think of everyday products outside the kitchen being made using biological processes ?
while eastman was largely responsible for making photography a universal pastime , even he could not have dreamed of the ways photography had since shaped the world . it 's now estimated that over 380 billion photographs are taken each year . that 's more photographs each day than were taken in the first hundred years after photography was invented .	it 's estimated that 330 billion photographs are taken each year . if there are 6.9 billion people in the world , how many photos on average is that per person ? how many photos do you estimate you take each year ?	it 's estimated that 330 billion photographs are taken each year . if there are 6.9 billion people in the world , how many photos on average is that per person ? how many photos do you estimate you take each year ?
you ’ d think the smell of dog poop would overpower rover ’ s sensitive snout . but dogs have a second olfactory system in their hyper-sensitive nose called the jacobson ’ s organ . the organ is designed specifically for chemical communication .	what is the name of the second olfactory system at play in a dog 's nose ? what does it do ?	what is the name of the second olfactory system at play in a dog 's nose ? what does it do ?
they were already proficient speakers . imagine your parents forcing you to only speak to other babies until you were good enough to speak to them . you would probably be an adult before you could carry on a proper conversation .	according to wooten , when we are learning to speak , what best describes the majority of people we speak to ?	according to wooten , when we are learning to speak , what best describes the majority of people we speak to ?
here are her suggestions for three steps to networking . 1 - always say yes to invitations , even if it 's not clear what you 'll get out of the meeting . many of kathryn 's most productive relationships resulted from a meeting or call without a clear agenda .	always say yes to invitations :	always say yes to invitations :
son of a ... by the way , the symbols and squiggles that are used to represent a bad word have a name . they 're called grawlixes . they were named by mort walker in his seminal `` the lexicon of comicana . ''	what are `` grawlixes '' ?	what are `` grawlixes '' ?
wherever they occur , skeletal muscles are connected to the somatic nervous system , which gives us almost complete control over their movements . this muscle group also contains two types of muscle fibers to refine our motions even further , slow-twitch and fast-twitch . fast-twitch fibers react instantly when triggered but quickly use up their energy and tire out .	fast twitch muscle cells :	fast twitch muscle cells :
and as trade flourished , so did technologies that facilitated it , like carts , ships , roads , and ports . of course , these things required even more labor to build and maintain , so more people were drawn from the countryside to the cities as more jobs and opportunities became available . if you think modern cities are overcrowded , you may be surprised to learn that some cities in 2000 b.c . had population densities nearly twice as high as that of shanghai or calcutta .	why were people initially drawn to cities ?	why were people initially drawn to cities ?
this whole galaxy is only one of probably hundreds of billions of other galaxies , a useful calibration of our place in the universe . - [ studs ] there 's also religion and science . - [ carl ] there is a tendency in both schools of thought to think that they have a corner on the truth .	according to carl sagan , why must we appeal to science and the `` natural world '' ( rather than religion ) to understand our origin and the universe ?	according to carl sagan , why must we appeal to science and the `` natural world '' ( rather than religion ) to understand our origin and the universe ?
so here you can see this very dark black metal , very fine spongy-type material , at the bottom of this glass vial . again , osmium has played some role in my life because i did some of the early work in my doctorate involved osmium compound , it was ruthenium and osmium and iron . the ruthenium compound was orange , the osmium compound a rather fetching pale yellow and the iron compound a very dark green . and the osmium compound was perhaps the most boring because it behaved in exactly the way that was predicted . so osmium reacts with the air to form osmium tetroxide , which is a very , very toxic material , it makes us go blind so we have very careful with storing the osmium . since then , i think in my life i have made one osmium compound that nobody had ever made before , it wasn ’ t enough to see but i could see the absorption of light by this compound , so i was really quite excited .	which compound is formed when metallic osmium is exposed to air ; it is useful in the organic synthetic laboratory and pete said it is very toxic ?	which compound is formed when metallic osmium is exposed to air ; it is useful in the organic synthetic laboratory and pete said it is very toxic ?
it 's that history can be changed . and , yeah , yeah , i know , everyone says history ca n't be changed , but it can . and today we 're going to talk about how history is n't just something that goes backwards , history goes forward too . and all those great things that have n't happened yet , that 's history that 's just waiting to be written . so how do you change history ? i 'm going to tell you by sharing with you the three things that i tell my kids every night when i tuck them into bed .	according to meltzer , history goes backwards and forwards . he says , `` all the great things that have n't happened yet -- that 's history ... ''	according to meltzer , history goes backwards and forwards . he says , `` all the great things that have n't happened yet -- that 's history ... ''
it all depends on the context of what you 're looking at . flat surfaces behave one way , while positively and negatively curved surfaces display very different characteristics . at first these alternative geometries seemed strange , but were soon found to be equally adept at describing the world around us .	what is meant by positive vs. negatively curved surfaces ? you can describe them in your own words or by referring to the shapes shown in the video .	what is meant by positive vs. negatively curved surfaces ? you can describe them in your own words or by referring to the shapes shown in the video .
if this model suggested by ideasthesia is accurate , it may have major implications for some of the biggest scientific and philosophical issues surrounding the study of mind . without a preexisting concept of self , descartes would not have had an `` i '' to attribute the thinking to . and without a preexisting network of interrelated and distinct concepts , our sensory experience of the world would be an undifferentiated mass rather than the discrete objects we actually apprehend .	in descartes ' `` i think , therefore i am , '' an important concept contributing to the experience of thinking may be :	in descartes ' `` i think , therefore i am , '' an important concept contributing to the experience of thinking may be :
so why would you think to combine them ? physicists did n't just decide to mash these things together out of no where . rather , they were led to the dual nature of the universe through a process of small steps , fitting together lots of bits of evidence , like pieces in a puzzle . the first person to seriously suggest the dual nature of light was albert einstein in 1905 , but he was picking up an earlier idea from max planck .	the idea that everything in the universe has both particle and wave characteristics was pieced together by many scientists , each with a different bit of evidence . describe another example ( in physics or another subject ) where an important discovery was made by piecing together lots of small clues .	the idea that everything in the universe has both particle and wave characteristics was pieced together by many scientists , each with a different bit of evidence . describe another example ( in physics or another subject ) where an important discovery was made by piecing together lots of small clues .
and researchers , in turn , discovered where people were willing to cut back . the engage project wanted to know what types of messaging could motivate people to change their behavior . we wanted to see over time over a year and with repeated messages , how do people , behave ?	the engage project is trying to understand what types of messaging could convince people to change their behavior . what were some of the messaging angles they tried and which proved most effective ?	the engage project is trying to understand what types of messaging could convince people to change their behavior . what were some of the messaging angles they tried and which proved most effective ?
the beams of light pass right through each other as you can check for yourself with two laser pointers and some chalk dust . for another thing , light makes interference patterns . interference patterns are the complicated undulations that happen when two wave patterns occupy the same space .	what are interference patterns ?	what are interference patterns ?
cox-1 and cox-2 are free to spit it out again , but for the time that that ibuprofen is in there , the enzyme ca n't bind arachidonic acid , and ca n't do its normal chemistry . but how do aspirin and ibuprofen know where the pain is ? well , they do n't .	how do painkillers “ know ” where you ’ re feeling pain ?	how do painkillers “ know ” where you ’ re feeling pain ?
we take 12 eggs , put them together to make a group , and we call that group a dozen . a dozen eggs is a composed unit . other examples of composed units include a deck of cards , a pair of shoes , a jazz quartet and of course , barbie and ken make a couple .	what is an example of a composed unit ?	what is an example of a composed unit ?
we take 12 eggs , put them together to make a group , and we call that group a dozen . a dozen eggs is a composed unit . other examples of composed units include a deck of cards , a pair of shoes , a jazz quartet and of course , barbie and ken make a couple .	the speaker offers a dozen eggs as a clear example of a composed unit and a slice of bread as a clear example of partitioned unit . things are not always so clear , however . is an inch a partitioned unit obtained from a foot , or is a foot a composed unit obtained from an inch ? what other examples can you think of where we can argue over the original unit ?	the speaker offers a dozen eggs as a clear example of a composed unit and a slice of bread as a clear example of partitioned unit . things are not always so clear , however . is an inch a partitioned unit obtained from a foot , or is a foot a composed unit obtained from an inch ? what other examples can you think of where we can argue over the original unit ?
we take 12 eggs , put them together to make a group , and we call that group a dozen . a dozen eggs is a composed unit . other examples of composed units include a deck of cards , a pair of shoes , a jazz quartet and of course , barbie and ken make a couple .	an example of a unit composed of composed units is :	an example of a unit composed of composed units is :
they are , however , enforced like laws , and are subject to judicial review by the court system to make sure they 're within the limits of the constitution . that means the courts have the power to invalidate any executive decisions that they determine are an overreach of the president in trying to assert power . and once the president leaves office , if his or her successor wants to eliminate the executive order , they can do so .	many modern day presidents use executive orders in times of crisis or to expand programs they believe in . do you think presidents should have this sweeping power over the 320 million americans in the united states ? since recent presidents are usually elected by only half of the country , is the executive order too much power for one person ? in your opinion , if the voters decided to take this power away , what could they replace it with ? can we ever ensure that one person will not use this power for bad deeds instead of good ? how can congress , the courts , and voters make sure this does not happen ?	many modern day presidents use executive orders in times of crisis or to expand programs they believe in . do you think presidents should have this sweeping power over the 320 million americans in the united states ? since recent presidents are usually elected by only half of the country , is the executive order too much power for one person ? in your opinion , if the voters decided to take this power away , what could they replace it with ? can we ever ensure that one person will not use this power for bad deeds instead of good ? how can congress , the courts , and voters make sure this does not happen ?
i like to study whales because they 're so interesting . they 've adapted to a unique environment of living in the water . and what i 'm going to tell you about is how whales make sounds by basically farting with their face .	the whale ’ s head has been modified through evolution to adapt it to living in the water . describe some of these changes .	the whale ’ s head has been modified through evolution to adapt it to living in the water . describe some of these changes .
all of our perceptions are always trying to be about the present , but you have to perceive the future to , in fact , perceive the present . and these illusions are failed perceptions of the future , because they 're just static images on the page , they 're not changing like in real life . and let me just end by showing one illusion here .	why does changizi call optical illusions on paper `` failed perceptions '' ?	why does changizi call optical illusions on paper `` failed perceptions '' ?
all of our perceptions are always trying to be about the present , but you have to perceive the future to , in fact , perceive the present . and these illusions are failed perceptions of the future , because they 're just static images on the page , they 're not changing like in real life . and let me just end by showing one illusion here .	sometimes , even though images are completely static , they can appear to move on a page .	sometimes , even though images are completely static , they can appear to move on a page .
but what affects humans also affects machines . satellites of the global positioning system are also hurdling around the earth at thousands of miles an hour . so , time dilation kicks in here , too . in fact , their speed causes the atomic clocks on board to disagree with clocks on the ground by seven millionths of a second daily . left uncorrected , this would cause gps to lose accuracy by a few kilometers each day . so , what does all this have to do with time travel to the far , distant future ?	how many millionths of a second each day would the satellites of the global positioning system be wrong by if the time dilation they experience due to their speed was not corrected for ?	how many millionths of a second each day would the satellites of the global positioning system be wrong by if the time dilation they experience due to their speed was not corrected for ?
miss gayle 's narration sets the stage of the outside world , and spoken word artist pages d. matan performs tyler 's inner voice . to set these two realms of inner- and outer-experience apart , a different animation technique was used to illustrate each . the real world was animated by rotoscoping , with a frame-by-frame tracing of live-action footage in black and white line art .	which animation style was not used in this video ?	which animation style was not used in this video ?
well , if you 're like me , you probably point at each person , one at a time , and count up from 0 : 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and so forth . well , that 's an algorithm . in fact , let 's try to express it a bit more formally in pseudocode , english-like syntax that resembles a programming language .	what 's an algorithm ?	what 's an algorithm ?
well , if you 're like me , you probably point at each person , one at a time , and count up from 0 : 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 and so forth . well , that 's an algorithm . in fact , let 's try to express it a bit more formally in pseudocode , english-like syntax that resembles a programming language .	what 's something that you did today that could be described in the form of an algorithm ?	what 's something that you did today that could be described in the form of an algorithm ?
and as artists began to question utopian thinking , the genre of dystopia , the not good place , was born . one of the earliest dystopian works is jonathan swift 's `` gulliver 's travels . '' throughout his journey , gulliver encounters fictional societies , some of which at first seem impressive , but turn out to be seriously flawed .	of these dystopian works , which was written earliest ?	of these dystopian works , which was written earliest ?
and as artists began to question utopian thinking , the genre of dystopia , the not good place , was born . one of the earliest dystopian works is jonathan swift 's `` gulliver 's travels . '' throughout his journey , gulliver encounters fictional societies , some of which at first seem impressive , but turn out to be seriously flawed .	what was the basic formula for dystopia established by jonathan swift in `` gulliver ’ s travels '' ?	what was the basic formula for dystopia established by jonathan swift in `` gulliver ’ s travels '' ?
the result will be a clump in the crowd that moves across the room . this clump is analogous to the higgs boson . it is important to remember that it is not that massive particles interact more with the higgs field .	a higgs boson is analogous to a	a higgs boson is analogous to a
he tested his idea with a stack of alternating layers of zinc and copper , separated by paper or cloth soaked in a salt water solution . what happened in volta 's cell is something chemists now call oxidation and reduction . the zinc oxidizes , which means it loses electrons , which are , in turn , gained by the ions in the water in a process called reduction , producing hydrogen gas .	oxidation and reduction are processes through which _____	oxidation and reduction are processes through which _____
who is this scientist and what did he do that was so extraordinary ? his name is alexander von humboldt . never heard of him ?	initially , what type of scientist was alexander von humboldt ?	initially , what type of scientist was alexander von humboldt ?
who is this scientist and what did he do that was so extraordinary ? his name is alexander von humboldt . never heard of him ?	alexander von humboldt connected lines of the same temperature . he called these lines :	alexander von humboldt connected lines of the same temperature . he called these lines :
who is this scientist and what did he do that was so extraordinary ? his name is alexander von humboldt . never heard of him ?	which continent did alexander von humboldt and aime bonpland explore from 1799 to 1804 ?	which continent did alexander von humboldt and aime bonpland explore from 1799 to 1804 ?
who is this scientist and what did he do that was so extraordinary ? his name is alexander von humboldt . never heard of him ?	who was alexander von humboldt ’ s most famous “ pen pal ” ?	who was alexander von humboldt ’ s most famous “ pen pal ” ?
who is this scientist and what did he do that was so extraordinary ? his name is alexander von humboldt . never heard of him ?	alexander von humboldt made extensive ____________ in each location he visited . these allowed him to see patterns in nature .	alexander von humboldt made extensive ____________ in each location he visited . these allowed him to see patterns in nature .
who is this scientist and what did he do that was so extraordinary ? his name is alexander von humboldt . never heard of him ?	briefly describe the regions that alexander von humboldt explored . what type of measurements did he take in these places ?	briefly describe the regions that alexander von humboldt explored . what type of measurements did he take in these places ?
and the fibre is very strong , neither brady nor i have managed to break it , and the problem is that even with this fibre , with the light beam going down it , eventually the light gets weaker and weaker and you lose the signal . so every 50km , every 30 miles or so , down the fibre when it ’ s under the sea you have to amplify the signal to get it back up again so that our youtube video can reach the other side of the atlantic or to india or wherever . and so the way you ’ ve got to do it you ’ ve got to somehow amplify the light , make it more intense , and you can do this with erbium because if you put erbium into the glass then if you shine a light onto the erbium atoms they get excited and then as the light comes in from the signal it interacts with the erbium atom and the erbium atom loses its energy and gives out more light .	as the professor explained in the final minute of the video , who are the big enemies of the internet fibers under the sea ?	as the professor explained in the final minute of the video , who are the big enemies of the internet fibers under the sea ?
and sometimes a new word is n't new at all . obsolete words gain new life by adopting new meanings . villain originally meant a peasant farmer , but in a twist of aristocratic snobbery came to mean someone not bound by the knightly code of chivalry and , therefore , a bad person .	obsolete words can gain new life :	obsolete words can gain new life :
and sometimes a new word is n't new at all . obsolete words gain new life by adopting new meanings . villain originally meant a peasant farmer , but in a twist of aristocratic snobbery came to mean someone not bound by the knightly code of chivalry and , therefore , a bad person .	new words tell us a lot about ourselves ? why do you think this is so ?	new words tell us a lot about ourselves ? why do you think this is so ?
and sometimes a new word is n't new at all . obsolete words gain new life by adopting new meanings . villain originally meant a peasant farmer , but in a twist of aristocratic snobbery came to mean someone not bound by the knightly code of chivalry and , therefore , a bad person .	some words are borrowed from other languages ? why do we do this rather than invent completely new ones ?	some words are borrowed from other languages ? why do we do this rather than invent completely new ones ?
and sometimes a new word is n't new at all . obsolete words gain new life by adopting new meanings . villain originally meant a peasant farmer , but in a twist of aristocratic snobbery came to mean someone not bound by the knightly code of chivalry and , therefore , a bad person .	does the internet now provide a source for many new words ? why ?	does the internet now provide a source for many new words ? why ?
that 's where the third clue comes in . since it tells us that the largest number must be unique , 2,2,9 must be the code . when night falls , you and the others escape through hallway thirteen and rejoin zara outside .	the number 18 is written as a product of 2 natural numbers . using the concepts introduced in this lesson , how many such unordered products are possible ? ( a*b and b*a to be considered as the same product ) ( hint 2:32 )	the number 18 is written as a product of 2 natural numbers . using the concepts introduced in this lesson , how many such unordered products are possible ? ( a*b and b*a to be considered as the same product ) ( hint 2:32 )
if we were able to fold it 25 times , then we would get two to the power of 25 , which is 33,554 centimeters , just over 1,100 feet . that would make it almost as tall as the empire state building . it 's worthwhile to stop here and reflect for a moment .	after how many folds would the paper be as tall as the empire state building ?	after how many folds would the paper be as tall as the empire state building ?
the pirate can only walk in iambs , a living reminder of shakespeare 's favorite meter . iambic pentameter is when he takes ten steps . our pirate friend can even help us remember how to properly mark it if we image the footprints he leaves walking along a deserted island beach : a curve for unstressed syllables , and a shoe outline for stressed ones .	iambic pentameter contains _____ feet , each of which contains _____ syllables .	iambic pentameter contains _____ feet , each of which contains _____ syllables .
the pirate can only walk in iambs , a living reminder of shakespeare 's favorite meter . iambic pentameter is when he takes ten steps . our pirate friend can even help us remember how to properly mark it if we image the footprints he leaves walking along a deserted island beach : a curve for unstressed syllables , and a shoe outline for stressed ones .	which of these lines is not in iambic pentameter ?	which of these lines is not in iambic pentameter ?
the pirate can only walk in iambs , a living reminder of shakespeare 's favorite meter . iambic pentameter is when he takes ten steps . our pirate friend can even help us remember how to properly mark it if we image the footprints he leaves walking along a deserted island beach : a curve for unstressed syllables , and a shoe outline for stressed ones .	try to have a conversation with a partner exclusively in iambic pentameter . you can write a dialogue with each other , alternating lines . or you can speak back and forth , keeping track of syllables on your fingers . count your syllables and stresses carefully ! remember that you can ’ t change the normal stress on a word just to fit the meter . ( for instance , you must say com-pu-ter and not com-pu-ter ) . see how long you can go in perfect pentameter . it ’ s harder than it looks !	try to have a conversation with a partner exclusively in iambic pentameter . you can write a dialogue with each other , alternating lines . or you can speak back and forth , keeping track of syllables on your fingers . count your syllables and stresses carefully ! remember that you can ’ t change the normal stress on a word just to fit the meter . ( for instance , you must say com-pu-ter and not com-pu-ter ) . see how long you can go in perfect pentameter . it ’ s harder than it looks !
precision , on the other hand , is how consistently you can get that result using the same method . your precision improves with more finely incremented tools that require less estimation . the story of the stolen crossbow was one of precision without accuracy . william got the same wrong result each time he fired .	questions of precision can arise not just from direct measurements , but also when we make decisions about what values are appropriate to plug into calculations . provide an example of this from the mars curiosity lander story .	questions of precision can arise not just from direct measurements , but also when we make decisions about what values are appropriate to plug into calculations . provide an example of this from the mars curiosity lander story .
so we 're gon na go find some liquid nitrogen . we keep it in a really large dewar tank at the back of the shop , so we 're gon na go find that now .	how is liquid nitrogen obtained from nature ?	how is liquid nitrogen obtained from nature ?
so we 're gon na go find some liquid nitrogen . we keep it in a really large dewar tank at the back of the shop , so we 're gon na go find that now .	what is the fog that can be seen around the dewar flask of liquid nitrogen ?	what is the fog that can be seen around the dewar flask of liquid nitrogen ?
and the first one that was discovered was the element gallium ( ekea aluminium ) and the second one was ekea boron which is scandium . now you might think that it is a bit surprising because if you look at a modern periodic table , scandium and boron are really quite a long way apart but in the original way that medeleev started the periodic table when he wrote it down first , scandium and boron came very close together because both of them , have three electrons in their outer shell which makes their chemistry quite similar . of course medeleev did not know about electrons , but he guessed from looking at titanium which has four electrons and calcium which has two that he thought there was something missing and what is also interesting about these three elements that he predicted is that they all ended up with names of countries .	in our periodic table , scandium and boron are quite separate , but mendeleev put them very close together . what explanation was given by the professor for this ? why is the chemistry of scandium and boron similar ?	in our periodic table , scandium and boron are quite separate , but mendeleev put them very close together . what explanation was given by the professor for this ? why is the chemistry of scandium and boron similar ?
in sparta , it was believed that only strong and capable women could bear children that would one day become strong and capable warriors . to all spartans , men and women , perhaps the most important lesson from spartan school was allegiance to sparta . to die for their city-state was seen as the completion of one 's duty to sparta .	why were women so important to sparta ’ s success ?	why were women so important to sparta ’ s success ?
just remember , it 's not enough to say , `` time slowed down '' and it 's not enough to throw a couple adjectives in a sentence and call it done either . descriptive writing is good writing , that 's true . but if you want to express the feeling of slow motion in life , you have to actually take up more physical space on the page , use more film so to speak .	what is true about slowing down time in writing ?	what is true about slowing down time in writing ?
occasionally this happens because a highly respected authority is dishonest and claims to know something that she or he really does n't know . sometimes it happens just because they make a mistake . they think they know when they do n't know .	you are deciding whether or not to marry hugo . although you love many things about hugo , there are other things that you don ’ t like ( e.g . hugo can sometimes make insensitive jokes , and he sometimes acts inappropriately around your family ) , and you doubt that those things can be changed . how would you go about making your decision ? would you ask others for advice ? why or why not ?	you are deciding whether or not to marry hugo . although you love many things about hugo , there are other things that you don ’ t like ( e.g . hugo can sometimes make insensitive jokes , and he sometimes acts inappropriately around your family ) , and you doubt that those things can be changed . how would you go about making your decision ? would you ask others for advice ? why or why not ?
i fought to be on this stage , to be able to stand next to lil ' kim and take all these pictures to create one definitive photo . a photo that was the most important of anything that i took . and i really wanted it for future generations to be able to feel the energy that was in that room , and certaintly you can feel that right there .	why is it important for photographers to build a relationship with their subjects ?	why is it important for photographers to build a relationship with their subjects ?
energy is all around us , a physical quantity that follows precise natural laws . our universe has a finite amount of it ; it 's neither created nor destroyed but can take different forms , such as kinetic or potential energy , with different properties and formulas to remember .	energy is a physical quantity that can not be ______________or destroyed .	energy is a physical quantity that can not be ______________or destroyed .
energy is all around us , a physical quantity that follows precise natural laws . our universe has a finite amount of it ; it 's neither created nor destroyed but can take different forms , such as kinetic or potential energy , with different properties and formulas to remember .	where does most of the us electricity come from ( primary source ) ?	where does most of the us electricity come from ( primary source ) ?
every living thing on earth is made of cells , from the smallest one-celled bacteria to the giant blue whale to you . each cell in your body is surrounded by a cell membrane , a thick flexible layer made of fats and proteins , that surrounds and protects the inner components . it 's semipermeable , meaning that it lets some thing pass in and out but blocks others .	proteins , like antibodies , are made inside of the cell . proteins are made by the cell ’ s :	proteins , like antibodies , are made inside of the cell . proteins are made by the cell ’ s :
( applause ) so it was n't the first time that i printed clothes . for my senior collection at fashion design school , i decided to try and 3d print an entire fashion collection from my home . the problem was that i barely knew anything about 3d printing , and i had only nine months to figure out how to print five fashionable looks .	forget shopping ? based on this talk , make three predictions about what lies ahead for the future of fashion .	forget shopping ? based on this talk , make three predictions about what lies ahead for the future of fashion .
( applause ) so it was n't the first time that i printed clothes . for my senior collection at fashion design school , i decided to try and 3d print an entire fashion collection from my home . the problem was that i barely knew anything about 3d printing , and i had only nine months to figure out how to print five fashionable looks .	what are some fashion technologies that this speaker has worked with ?	what are some fashion technologies that this speaker has worked with ?
so californium is another element which was first prepared at the berkeley labs in california . it ’ s got quite a few military applications , usually involving the word ‘ nuclear ’ .	in which us city was californium first made ?	in which us city was californium first made ?
so californium is another element which was first prepared at the berkeley labs in california . it ’ s got quite a few military applications , usually involving the word ‘ nuclear ’ .	does californium have any stable ( non-radioactive ) isotopes ?	does californium have any stable ( non-radioactive ) isotopes ?
so californium is another element which was first prepared at the berkeley labs in california . it ’ s got quite a few military applications , usually involving the word ‘ nuclear ’ .	what is the longest-lived isotope of californium and what is its half-life ?	what is the longest-lived isotope of californium and what is its half-life ?
but even when this has been done , the very nature of epidemiological studies , which examine differences between preexisting groups , rather than deliberately inducing changes within the same individuals , means that a single study can only demonstrate a correlation between a substance and a health outcome , rather than a true cause and effect relationship . at the end of the day , epidemiological studies have served as excellent guides to public health , alerting us to critical health hazards , such as smoking , asbestos , lead , and many more . but these were demonstrated through multiple , well-conducted epidemiological studies , all pointing in the same direction .	studies conducted in animals can provide us with definitive information about human health risks .	studies conducted in animals can provide us with definitive information about human health risks .
well , everything on earth is made out of elements . and what defines each element is the number of protons in the nucleus . that is how our periodic table is organized .	which element below is not a prominent element in the human body ?	which element below is not a prominent element in the human body ?
each villus is made of cells with highly folded membranes that have tiny bumps called microvilli to increase their surface area . but what about single-celled organisms ? caulerpa taxifolia , a green algae that can reach 30 centimeters long , is believed to be the largest single-celled organism in the world thanks to its unique biological hacks .	which of the following is believed to be one of the largest single-celled organisms in the world ?	which of the following is believed to be one of the largest single-celled organisms in the world ?
if 'ozo ' means yes and the overlord is tee , it truthfully replies , `` ozo . '' but what if we ask eff ? well , it would answer `` ulu , '' or no to the embedded question , so it lies and replies 'ozo ' instead .	why can ’ t you just directly ask each alien about their identities ?	why can ’ t you just directly ask each alien about their identities ?
computer simulators run thousands of different landing scenarios , mixing and matching values for all of the variables . weighing all the possibilities , the computer spits out the potential area of impact in the form of a landing ellipse . in 1976 , the landing ellipse for the mars viking lander was 62 x 174 miles , nearly the area of new jersey . with such a limitation , nasa had to ignore many interesting but risky landing areas . since then , new information about the martian atmosphere , improved spacecraft technology , and more powerful computer simulations have drastically reduced uncertainty .	what is a 'landing ellipse ' ?	what is a 'landing ellipse ' ?
the resulting chord is called a diminished seventh chord . now this chord is a group whose elements are these four notes . the operation we can perform on it is to shift the bottom note to the top .	if we only had white keys on a piano and no black keys , how would this change the relationship between notes ? would it be possible to construct chords that satisfy the group axioms ?	if we only had white keys on a piano and no black keys , how would this change the relationship between notes ? would it be possible to construct chords that satisfy the group axioms ?
so here we have a rather large balloon of hydrogen , neil is just preparing our electric match which we are going to attach to the side of this balloon . and some of the biggest explosions in the 20th century , the chernobyl reactor , the space shuttle that blew up when it was taking off , were in fact explosions caused by hydrogen and oxygen . so we ’ ve filled up a balloon of hydrogen , and i think if you look at the hydrogen balloon you will see that it is slightly larger than those we have attempted before .	as the professor said in the video , some of the biggest explosions in the 20th century were hydrogen/oxygen explosions . examples are the chernobyl reactor explosion , the space shuttle , challenger , disaster , and the hindenburg zeppelin disaster . in each of these scenarios , why was hydrogen being used ?	as the professor said in the video , some of the biggest explosions in the 20th century were hydrogen/oxygen explosions . examples are the chernobyl reactor explosion , the space shuttle , challenger , disaster , and the hindenburg zeppelin disaster . in each of these scenarios , why was hydrogen being used ?
since the character does not need to be drawn over and over again , it can be animated by moving each element individually . aside from their portrayal in a few great modern zombie flicks , these concocted carcasses are generally known for limited , stiff movements . their traditional stride is perfect for puppet-style animation .	because zombies are known for their limited , stiff movements , what kind of animation would be best to use for them ?	because zombies are known for their limited , stiff movements , what kind of animation would be best to use for them ?
this logic actually is correct for the tree stump , but not for the clearing . wrong answer two : first , you saw two frogs in the clearing . now you 've learned that at least one of them is male , but what are the chances that both are ?	you spot two frogs sitting next to each other . what is the probability that both are female ?	you spot two frogs sitting next to each other . what is the probability that both are female ?
this logic actually is correct for the tree stump , but not for the clearing . wrong answer two : first , you saw two frogs in the clearing . now you 've learned that at least one of them is male , but what are the chances that both are ?	consider the same two frogs sitting next to each other . what is the probability that a least one of them is female ?	consider the same two frogs sitting next to each other . what is the probability that a least one of them is female ?
before you are the twelve identical looking coins and a balance scale . you know that the false coin will be very slightly lighter or heavier than the rest . but the emperor 's not a patient man .	if you don ’ t know whether the counterfeit coin is heavier or lighter , what is the maximum number of coins for which three weighs are guaranteed to uncover the single counterfeit coin and determine its relative weight ?	if you don ’ t know whether the counterfeit coin is heavier or lighter , what is the maximum number of coins for which three weighs are guaranteed to uncover the single counterfeit coin and determine its relative weight ?
but they still faced discrimination and mistrust from their fellow soldiers . harry recalled an instance where his combat gear was mysteriously misplaced just prior to parachuting into enemy territory , with the white officer reluctant to give him a weapon . nevertheless , both brothers continued to serve loyally through the end of the war .	like other ethnic groups , many japanese-americans suffered discrimination by other americans . this was also true in the u.s. military . describe what happened to harry akune just before he boarded the paratrooper plane that was to drop them over enemy territory . why do you think harry had good reason to suspect the white officer of discriminating against him ?	like other ethnic groups , many japanese-americans suffered discrimination by other americans . this was also true in the u.s. military . describe what happened to harry akune just before he boarded the paratrooper plane that was to drop them over enemy territory . why do you think harry had good reason to suspect the white officer of discriminating against him ?
over time , through this epigenetic reprogramming , some cells develop into heart cells , and others into liver cells . each of the approximately 200 cell types in your body has essentially the same genome but its own distinct epigenome . the epigenome also mediates a lifelong dialogue between genes and the environment .	what is true about two different cell types in the body ?	what is true about two different cell types in the body ?
in fact , this type of specific consonance , which occurs at the beginning of words may be familiar to you already . it 's called alliteration , or front rhyme . great examples include tongue twisters .	what are some of your favorite song lyrics that employ repetition ? how do they use poetic devices such as rhyme , assonance , consonance , or alliteration ?	what are some of your favorite song lyrics that employ repetition ? how do they use poetic devices such as rhyme , assonance , consonance , or alliteration ?
networks are collections of links which combine by specific rules and behaviors if they are alive . we say that networks are alive because they are in constant change . over time , the connections within a network migrate and concentrate in new places , forming evolving structures .	why do we say that networks are alive ?	why do we say that networks are alive ?
when maria wondered off by herself , she made an amazing discovery . they were standing inside a site of ancient art , the walls and roofs decorated with prehistoric paintings and engravings , ranging from 19,000 to 35,000 years old . similar marks of our ancestors have been preserved in caves all over the world .	what sort of historical record do cave paintings provide ? how can we use them as an artifact in thinking through the earliest years of civilization ?	what sort of historical record do cave paintings provide ? how can we use them as an artifact in thinking through the earliest years of civilization ?
at its highest point , the city had a bustling urban population of 18,000 people and was one of the major african trade centers at the time . what enabled this growth was great zimbabwe 's influential role in an intercontinental trade network . connected to several key city-states along the east african swahili coast , it was part of the larger indian ocean trade routes .	what does great zimbabwe ’ s name in shona , madzimbabwe , mean ?	what does great zimbabwe ’ s name in shona , madzimbabwe , mean ?
at its highest point , the city had a bustling urban population of 18,000 people and was one of the major african trade centers at the time . what enabled this growth was great zimbabwe 's influential role in an intercontinental trade network . connected to several key city-states along the east african swahili coast , it was part of the larger indian ocean trade routes .	what evidence from archeologists indicates great zimbabwe was part of an intercontinental trade network ?	what evidence from archeologists indicates great zimbabwe was part of an intercontinental trade network ?
at its highest point , the city had a bustling urban population of 18,000 people and was one of the major african trade centers at the time . what enabled this growth was great zimbabwe 's influential role in an intercontinental trade network . connected to several key city-states along the east african swahili coast , it was part of the larger indian ocean trade routes .	what trade items were important to great zimbabwe ’ s economy ?	what trade items were important to great zimbabwe ’ s economy ?
you have muscles contract to bring oxygen , a gas , into your lungs , which is then transferred by your bloodstream to every cell in your body . gases are strange . we ca n't see them , but we know they 're there because we can feel them .	why do individual gases have a volume of zero ?	why do individual gases have a volume of zero ?
but sometimes , carbon based organisms like plants or animals get stuck in the earth . when this happens , they 're compressed under tons of pressure , and turned into carbon-based fossil fuels like oil , coal or natural gas . since the industrial revolution , humans have been pulling those fossil fuels out of the ground and burning them , activating the stored energy to make electricity and power engines . but the thing is it also releases millions of years worth of stored co2 back into the air .	burning fossil fuels creates energy because :	burning fossil fuels creates energy because :
you might find snapdragon , pixie crunch , cosmic crisp , jazz , or ambrosia next to the more familiar red delicious and granny smith . these delightfully descriptive names belong to just a handful of the over 7,500 apple varieties in the world . this huge diversity exists largely because of humanity 's efforts to bear new fruit .	how many apple varieties are there in the world ?	how many apple varieties are there in the world ?
raising an army in france , he crossed the channel in 1485 and quickly defeated richard 's forces . and by marrying elizabeth of york , elder sister of the disappeared princes , the newly crowned henry vii joined the two roses , finally ending nearly a century of war . we often think of historical wars as decisive conflicts with clearly defined winners and losers .	what were the ways in which henry tudor managed to finally end the war ?	what were the ways in which henry tudor managed to finally end the war ?
fatty deposits , or plaques , develop on the walls of our coronary arteries . those are the vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the heart . these plaques grow as we age , sometimes getting chunky , hardened , or enflamed .	what are the blood vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the heart called ?	what are the blood vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the heart called ?
the other thing that is good about magnesium is that there is a lot of magnesium about in the world , so it is not an element that is difficult to get . if you look at this periodic table here , which is from barcelona so it is in catalan , the areas of these , each element are approximately the abundance in the world . some of the rarer elements have a slightly bigger squares than they should do so you can read the letters , but you see magnesium here is pretty large , so magnesium and sodium are pretty common , beryllium is much less common , and lithium is even less common than that , so there is lots of magnesium .	which property of magnesium is shown on the catalan periodic table that arrived for the professor from barcelona ?	which property of magnesium is shown on the catalan periodic table that arrived for the professor from barcelona ?
but how can a medium that is on the surface so simple have so much influence and at times be so meaningful ? let 's look at what a cartoon is . it starts with an idea .	which of the following is not an example of a cartoon ?	which of the following is not an example of a cartoon ?
that 's what we 're trying to do , but we need to do it much better than what i did in this picture . and , there are two things we need to do : we need a much better eye , call them telescopes , and we need more fancy , clever ways to do it than putting a thumb . so as an example , one of the projects i work on is for the subaru telescope , which you can see here in this picture .	guyon says we need a better eye . what does he mean ?	guyon says we need a better eye . what does he mean ?
your favorite band is great at playing music , but not so great at being organized . they keep misplacing their instruments on tour , and it 's driving their manager mad .	can you suggest your own modification of the problem ?	can you suggest your own modification of the problem ?
i had the knowledge of how to operate the bike , but i did not have the understanding . therefore , knowledge is not understanding . look i know what you 're probably thinking .	using the example of the backwards bicycle , explain what destin means when he says that knowledge does n't equal understanding .	using the example of the backwards bicycle , explain what destin means when he says that knowledge does n't equal understanding .
and if you don ’ t have a good understanding of yourself you are in big trouble . so that ’ s intrapersonal intelligence . the eighth intelligence which i added some years ago is the naturalist intelligence . and that ’ s the capacity to make important relevant discriminations in the world of nature between one plant and another , between one animal and another .	describe what naturalist intelligence is .	describe what naturalist intelligence is .
sometimes , however , massive changes in the environment occur too quickly for most living creatures to adapt , causing thousands of species to die off in a geological instant . we call this a mass extinction event , and although such events may be rare , paleontologists have been able to identify several of them through dramatic changes in the fossil record , where lineages that persisted through several geological layers suddenly disappear . in fact , these mass extinctions are used to divide the earth 's history into distinct periods . although the disappearance of the dinosaurs is the best known mass extinction event , the largest occurred long before dinosaurs ever existed . 252 million years ago , between the permian and triassic periods , the earth 's land masses gathered together into the single supercontinent pangaea . as it coalesced , its interior was filled with deserts , while the single coastline eliminated many of the shallow tropical seas where biodiversity thrived .	the permian-triassic mass extinction paved the way for what group of animals to diversify ?	the permian-triassic mass extinction paved the way for what group of animals to diversify ?
they would play with their skirts and pants . that child already , at four , understood the most important principle for success , which is the ability to delay gratification . self-discipline : the most important factor for success . 15 years later , 14 or 15 years later , follow-up study . what did they find ?	why do you think mastering delayed self-gratification as a child allows for more success later in life ?	why do you think mastering delayed self-gratification as a child allows for more success later in life ?
licinia fully understands now why her predecessor was buried alive . ten years ago , the flame of vesta went out . the priestesses knew that they could n't keep it a secret .	where is the temple of vesta located ?	where is the temple of vesta located ?
but of course , there are a bunch of problems . for one thing , if everyone followed the road less travelled , it quickly becomes the road more travelled . furthermore , there are many times when the road more travelled is more travelled for a reason , because for instance , the road less travelled leads to a kayak unfriendly marsh . or because there 's something kind of nice about having a spouse and two kids and a mini-van .	what did the speaker ( john green ) discover when he took the road less traveled while in his kayak ?	what did the speaker ( john green ) discover when he took the road less traveled while in his kayak ?
instead of arising from the planet 's rocky crust , it was actually cooked up in space and is present on earth because of cataclysmic stellar explosions called supernovae . stars are mostly made up of hydrogen , the simplest and lightest element . the enormous gravitational pressure of so much material compresses and triggers nuclear fusion in the star 's core .	what is the lightest chemical element ?	what is the lightest chemical element ?
instead of arising from the planet 's rocky crust , it was actually cooked up in space and is present on earth because of cataclysmic stellar explosions called supernovae . stars are mostly made up of hydrogen , the simplest and lightest element . the enormous gravitational pressure of so much material compresses and triggers nuclear fusion in the star 's core .	how are the lightest elements made ?	how are the lightest elements made ?
oh , they tried , your honor . in 1953 , che came to guatemala under the democratically-elected government of president árbenz . árbenz passed reforms to redistribute some of this uncultivated land back to the people while compensating the landowners .	what was president arbenz ’ s program in guatemala ?	what was president arbenz ’ s program in guatemala ?
fortunately , he turned out to be wrong . a vacuum is a key component of the barometer , an instrument for measuring air pressure . and because air pressure correlates to temperature and rapid shifts in it can contribute to hurricanes , tornadoes and other extreme weather events , a barometer is one of the most essential tools for weather forecasters and scientists alike . how does a barometer work , and how was it invented ?	air pressure correlates to temperature , and when it shifts rapidly , it can contribute to :	air pressure correlates to temperature , and when it shifts rapidly , it can contribute to :
the next pathfinder mission used an airbag system to allow the rover to bounce and roll to a halt without burning contaminating fuel . years later , we wanted to send a much larger rover : curiosity . however , it was too large for the airbag design , so another constraint was defined .	what constraints were nasa trying to address by using airbags and the skycrane for the pathfinder and curiosity rover ? why not just use rockets to land on the surface of mars ?	what constraints were nasa trying to address by using airbags and the skycrane for the pathfinder and curiosity rover ? why not just use rockets to land on the surface of mars ?
the next pathfinder mission used an airbag system to allow the rover to bounce and roll to a halt without burning contaminating fuel . years later , we wanted to send a much larger rover : curiosity . however , it was too large for the airbag design , so another constraint was defined .	what was the device used to lower the curiosity rover ?	what was the device used to lower the curiosity rover ?
sounds like somebody needs a hug . love is escape from our loneliness . according to the nobel prize-winning british philosopher bertrand russell , we love in order to quench our physical and psychological desires . humans are designed to procreate , but without the ecstasy of passionate love , sex is unsatisfying .	for bertrand russell , what is love ?	for bertrand russell , what is love ?
there 's a play so powerful that an old superstition says its name should never even be uttered in a theater , a play that begins with witchcraft and ends with a bloody severed head , a play filled with riddles , prophesies , nightmare visions , and lots of brutal murder , a play by william shakespeare sometimes referred to as the `` scottish play '' or the `` tragedy of macbeth . '' first performed at the globe theater in london in 1606 , `` macbeth '' is shakespeare 's shortest tragedy . it is also one of his most action-packed .	the audience at the globe theatre , where shakespeare ’ s plays were performed :	the audience at the globe theatre , where shakespeare ’ s plays were performed :
the first amendment protects our rights to say and write our opinions , worship how we please , assemble together peacefully and petition our government , if we feel the need . the second amendment is the right to bear arms . the original intent of the second amendment was to protect colonists from the invading british soldiers , but it now guarantees that you have the right to own a gun to defend yourself and your property .	what was the original intent of the second amendment ?	what was the original intent of the second amendment ?
look up and you ’ ll see the last sliver of the sun sparkling like a diamond ring , before it ’ s broken into a string of beads by the moon ’ s rough terrain . now you can see the pearly glow of the sun ’ s corona and the pink and red light from the hydrogen gas of the chromosphere . together these make up the sun ’ s outer atmosphere , and a total solar eclipse is the only occasion you have to lay eyes on it .	during an eclipse , what causes the pearly chain of light around the moon before the glow of the sun 's corona ?	during an eclipse , what causes the pearly chain of light around the moon before the glow of the sun 's corona ?
tornadoes begin with a thunderstorm but not just any thunderstorm . these are especially powerful , towering thunderstorms called supercells . reaching up to over 50,000 feet , they bring high force winds , giant hailstones , sometimes flooding and great flashes of lightning , too .	supercells commonly bring :	supercells commonly bring :
synesthesia only occurs in some people , although it may be more common than previously thought . but ideasthesia itself is a fundamental part of our lives . virtually all of us recognize the color red as warm and blue as cold .	the term `` ideasthesia '' refers to :	the term `` ideasthesia '' refers to :
synesthesia only occurs in some people , although it may be more common than previously thought . but ideasthesia itself is a fundamental part of our lives . virtually all of us recognize the color red as warm and blue as cold .	the theory of ideasthesia suggests that the ability to understand a metaphor is based on :	the theory of ideasthesia suggests that the ability to understand a metaphor is based on :
synesthesia only occurs in some people , although it may be more common than previously thought . but ideasthesia itself is a fundamental part of our lives . virtually all of us recognize the color red as warm and blue as cold .	should we strive to maximize ideasthesia in our lives ? or are we fine separating sensation and meaning , enjoying sensations that do n't have meaning and finding meaning without experiencing sensation ?	should we strive to maximize ideasthesia in our lives ? or are we fine separating sensation and meaning , enjoying sensations that do n't have meaning and finding meaning without experiencing sensation ?
but swift 's `` gulliver 's travels '' described him as one of the most virtuous and benevolent people to have lived . the interpretation of brutus as either a selfless fighter against dictatorship or an opportunistic traitor has shifted with the tides of history and politics . but even today , over 2000 years later , questions about the price of liberty , the conflict between personal loyalties and universal ideals , and unintended consequences remain more relevant than ever .	was brutus a true patriot or an opportunistic traitor ?	was brutus a true patriot or an opportunistic traitor ?
so radium was the element that was discovered by madam curie and its chemistry is very similar to that of barium , except that it is radioactive and it was used quite widely for treatment of cancer in the days when radiation was used , radioactivity was used , for treating cancer . the idea is that cancer cells , well all cells are liable to be killed by radiation , by radioactivity when they are dividing so cancer cells are cells in the body which are dividing much faster , out-of-control compared to other cells , so if you radiate a patient , the cancer cells , because they are dividing faster , die quicker , so overall although a lot of cells die , the cancer cells die further .	radium was the second element to be discovered by marie and pierre curie . which element was their first discovery ?	radium was the second element to be discovered by marie and pierre curie . which element was their first discovery ?
so radium was the element that was discovered by madam curie and its chemistry is very similar to that of barium , except that it is radioactive and it was used quite widely for treatment of cancer in the days when radiation was used , radioactivity was used , for treating cancer . the idea is that cancer cells , well all cells are liable to be killed by radiation , by radioactivity when they are dividing so cancer cells are cells in the body which are dividing much faster , out-of-control compared to other cells , so if you radiate a patient , the cancer cells , because they are dividing faster , die quicker , so overall although a lot of cells die , the cancer cells die further .	as the professor explained , radium was used for treating cancer . could barium , the element just above radium on the periodic table and with a very similar chemistry , be used in the same way ?	as the professor explained , radium was used for treating cancer . could barium , the element just above radium on the periodic table and with a very similar chemistry , be used in the same way ?
statistics are persuasive . so much so that people , organizations , and whole countries base some of their most important decisions on organized data .	which types of bias should we be aware of when analyzing statistics ?	which types of bias should we be aware of when analyzing statistics ?
statistics are persuasive . so much so that people , organizations , and whole countries base some of their most important decisions on organized data .	are there any ethical responsibilities that we face when working with statistics ? if yes , what might they be ?	are there any ethical responsibilities that we face when working with statistics ? if yes , what might they be ?
statistics are persuasive . so much so that people , organizations , and whole countries base some of their most important decisions on organized data .	what type of variable should we be aware of when interpreting statistics ?	what type of variable should we be aware of when interpreting statistics ?
after all , the energy content of antimatter is a billion times higher than conventional fuel . the energy of one gram of antimatter would be enough for driving a car 1,000 times around the earth , or to bring the space shuttle into orbit . so why do n't we use antimatter for energy production ? well , antimatter is n't just sitting around , ready for us to harvest . we have to make antimatter before we can combust antimatter , and it takes a billion times more energy to make antimatter than you get back . but , what if there was some antimatter in outer space and we could dig it out one day from an antiplanet somewhere . a few decades ago , many scientists believed that this could actually be possible .	name one practical application of antimatter :	name one practical application of antimatter :
the correlations between the indeterminate states of entangled particles are real and can not be explained by any deeper variable . the epr paper turned out to be wrong but brilliantly so . by leading physicists to think deeply about the foundations of quantum physics , it led to further elaboration of the theory and helped launch research into subjects like quantum information , now a thriving field with the potential to develop computers of unparalleled power .	the key to testing the epr paper is :	the key to testing the epr paper is :
the sun sets , and the day 's work is done , though a plant is anything but inactive at night . in the absence of sunlight , they metabolize and grow , breaking down the starch from the previous day 's energy harvest . many plants have seasonal rhythms as well .	what is starch ?	what is starch ?
instead , historical progress has mainly come from the u.s. supreme court , which has expanded its interpretation of existing constitutional laws to keep up with the times . considering that supreme court justices are unelected and serve for life once appointed , this is far from the most democratic option . interestingly , the founders themselves may have foreseen this problem early on .	if you had a choice , who should have the power to amend the us constitution - just over 50 % of the american people , or five out of nine us supreme court justices ? explain .	if you had a choice , who should have the power to amend the us constitution - just over 50 % of the american people , or five out of nine us supreme court justices ? explain .
before the creation of humanity , the greek gods won a great battle against a race of giants called the titans . most titans were destroyed or driven to the eternal hell of tartarus . but the titan prometheus , whose name means foresight , persuaded his brother epimetheus to fight with him on the side of the gods .	the titans were :	the titans were :
and so in the last few weeks , we 've had a bunch of discussions about poetry - whether poetry matters , what poetry does , etc . and i think we have the road not taken as one answer about what poetry can do . because poetry is so often musical and rhythmic , it has a way of sticking in our heads , like i memorized it almost by accident .	how do you interpret `` the road not taken '' ?	how do you interpret `` the road not taken '' ?
unfortunately , one-third of these species are threatened due to overfishing . after millions of years in the making , these apex predators may be meeting their greatest challenge yet .	what is meant when an organism is referred to as an apex predator ?	what is meant when an organism is referred to as an apex predator ?
in a letter to james madison , thomas jefferson wrote that laws should expire every 19 years rather than having to be changed or repealed since every political process is full of obstacles that distort the will of the people . although he believed that the basic principles of the constitution would endure , he stressed that the earth belongs to the living , and not to the dead .	who said , `` the earth should belong to the living '' ?	who said , `` the earth should belong to the living '' ?
his tragicomic stories act as a form of mythology for the modern industrial age , employing dream logic to explore the relationships between systems of arbitrary power and the individuals caught up in them . take , for example , kafka 's most famous story , `` metamorphosis . '' when gregor samsa awaken 's one morning to find himself transformed into a giant insect , his greatest worry is that he gets to work on time . of course , this proves impossible .	in `` the metamorphosis , '' what is gregor samsa ’ s immediate concern when he discovers that , overnight , he has transformed into a giant insect ?	in `` the metamorphosis , '' what is gregor samsa ’ s immediate concern when he discovers that , overnight , he has transformed into a giant insect ?
now , this fear of the number thirteen , called triskaidekaphobia , is so common that many buildings around the world skip the thirteenth floor , with the numbers going straight from twelve to fourteen . of course , many people consider the story of the last supper to be true but other superstitions come from religious traditions that few people believe in or even remember . knocking on wood is thought to come from the folklore of the ancient indo-europeans or possibly people who predated them who believed that trees were home to various spirits .	what is not a reason people believe in superstitions ?	what is not a reason people believe in superstitions ?
gigantic solar flares can mess with our satellites and electrical equipment , but the chances of it killing you are pretty slim . okay , what about that supermassive black hole in the middle of our galaxy ? what happens to earth , and us , when it pulls us in ?	why wo n't a supermassive black hole pull earth into it ?	why wo n't a supermassive black hole pull earth into it ?
and while any language needs consistent patterns to function , the study of these patterns opens up an ongoing debate between two positions known as prescriptivism and descriptivism . grossly simplified , prescriptivists think a given language should follow consistent rules , while descriptivists see variation and adaptation as a natural and necessary part of language . for much of history , the vast majority of language was spoken .	a dialect of a given language may become the standard variety of that language…	a dialect of a given language may become the standard variety of that language…
after all , how much energy can it possibly generate ? well , if all the grease that new yorkers throw away in one day were converted to jet fuel , it would be enough to power several hundred flights from new york to los angeles . and let 's not forget that using waste oil instead of burning more fossil fuels will limit our negative effects on the environment .	when the city pipes are blocked and congested by the fat blockages created by our grease , it takes time and money to restore them . what could be the consequences of those blockages in our day-to-day life ?	when the city pipes are blocked and congested by the fat blockages created by our grease , it takes time and money to restore them . what could be the consequences of those blockages in our day-to-day life ?
religions are systems of belief that have developed and evolved over time in response to these and other eternal mysteries , driven by the feeling that some questions can only be answered by faith and based on an intuition that there is something greater than ourselves , a higher power we must answer to , or some source we all spring from and to which we must return . hinduism means the religions of india . it 's not a single religion but rather a variety of related beliefs and spiritual practices .	who are the trinity of gods in hinduism ?	who are the trinity of gods in hinduism ?
religions are systems of belief that have developed and evolved over time in response to these and other eternal mysteries , driven by the feeling that some questions can only be answered by faith and based on an intuition that there is something greater than ourselves , a higher power we must answer to , or some source we all spring from and to which we must return . hinduism means the religions of india . it 's not a single religion but rather a variety of related beliefs and spiritual practices .	what do you think is the relationship between religious ceremonies and religious beliefs ? choose examples from any two of the five religions in the lesson .	what do you think is the relationship between religious ceremonies and religious beliefs ? choose examples from any two of the five religions in the lesson .
religions are systems of belief that have developed and evolved over time in response to these and other eternal mysteries , driven by the feeling that some questions can only be answered by faith and based on an intuition that there is something greater than ourselves , a higher power we must answer to , or some source we all spring from and to which we must return . hinduism means the religions of india . it 's not a single religion but rather a variety of related beliefs and spiritual practices .	do you notice any similarities between all five religions ? give two examples .	do you notice any similarities between all five religions ? give two examples .
if it does n't embed , a few days later , the body 's progesterone and estrogen levels plummet , meaning the womb stops padding out and starts to degenerate , eventually falling away . blood and tissue leave the body , forming the period . the womb can take up to a week to clear out its unused contents , after which , the cycle begins anew .	the average period lasts between :	the average period lasts between :
if it does n't embed , a few days later , the body 's progesterone and estrogen levels plummet , meaning the womb stops padding out and starts to degenerate , eventually falling away . blood and tissue leave the body , forming the period . the womb can take up to a week to clear out its unused contents , after which , the cycle begins anew .	every woman 's period is the same .	every woman 's period is the same .
and this edifice can be viewed through countless dimensions : scientific , emotional , historical , spiritual , legal , or just personal . if no two people are the same , no two people 's love is the same either . so , in every loving relationship , there 's a lot to talk about and partners should be open to that , or the relationship probably wo n't last .	love is the same for all people .	love is the same for all people .
( applause ) so , as you saw , i took three different songs and kind of combined them into one new idea , which is something plenty of djs do out there on the professional circuit . there are plenty of ways to get started djing . one of the main things i did was really take the time to study djs that inspired me .	explain why it 's easy to get started as a dj .	explain why it 's easy to get started as a dj .
fluorine has this reputation for being very reactive and very dangerous and something to be careful about . but aren ’ t their fluorine atoms in my toothpaste ? your toothpaste contains fluoride and , just in the same way that you can eat sodium chloride , table salt which contains chlorine , you can use fluorides and once the fluorine has got an extra electron , for example from the tin in tin fluoride , which is often used in toothpaste or sodium fluoride .	how does the professor calm brady down when he becomes concerned about the fluorine in his toothpaste ?	how does the professor calm brady down when he becomes concerned about the fluorine in his toothpaste ?
in many languages , this standard form came to be considered the only proper one , despite being derived from just one of many spoken varieties , usually that of the people in power . language purists worked to establish and propagate this standard by detailing a set of rules that reflected the established grammar of their times . and rules for written grammar were applied to spoken language , as well . speech patterns that deviated from the written rules were considered corruptions , or signs of low social status , and many people who had grown up speaking in these ways were forced to adopt the standardized form .	grammar can be defined as :	grammar can be defined as :
the subjects consistently chose the shapes and words that they 'd seen the most . exposure leads to familiarity and familiarity leads to subconscious preference . there ’ s even an explanation from evolutionary psychology : if you 're a hunter/gatherer trawling a savannah of africa and you see a plant or an animal that you recognize , that 's a good sign that it has n't killed you … at least not yet .	exposure leads to familiarity and familiarity leads to subconscious preference . what test did researchers perform to prove this ?	exposure leads to familiarity and familiarity leads to subconscious preference . what test did researchers perform to prove this ?
that makes your stomach stretch more over a period of time , allowing your body to register that you 're filling up . this seems to be why when you eat slowly , you actually feel fuller compared to when you consume your food at lightning speed . when you eat quickly , your body does n't have time to recognize the state it 's in .	why is it that eating more slowly makes you feel fuller ?	why is it that eating more slowly makes you feel fuller ?
with only a small change to the constraints under which the system operates , we have shifted the billiard motion from behaving in a stable and predictable fashion , to fluctuating wildly , thus creating what mathematicians call chaotic motion . inserting the straight edges into the table acts as a tipping point , switching the systems behavior from one type of behavior ( regular ) , to another type of behavior ( chaotic ) . so what implications does this simple example have for the much more complicated reality of the earth 's climate ?	when the behavior of a system switches from being regular to chaotic after a change is added , this is called :	when the behavior of a system switches from being regular to chaotic after a change is added , this is called :
with only a small change to the constraints under which the system operates , we have shifted the billiard motion from behaving in a stable and predictable fashion , to fluctuating wildly , thus creating what mathematicians call chaotic motion . inserting the straight edges into the table acts as a tipping point , switching the systems behavior from one type of behavior ( regular ) , to another type of behavior ( chaotic ) . so what implications does this simple example have for the much more complicated reality of the earth 's climate ?	a small change in temperature may cause a tipping point resulting in a shift in climate behavior such as :	a small change in temperature may cause a tipping point resulting in a shift in climate behavior such as :
as the majority of children and adults will have been exposed to the virus in previous seasons , these illnesses are usually mild . however , every 20 to 40 years or so the virus undergoes a dramatic mutation . usually this occurs when a wild flu virus circulating in ducks and farm poultry meets a pig virus , and they exchange genes .	what happens to the influenza virus every 20-40 years , and why ? what are the recent example ( s ) ?	what happens to the influenza virus every 20-40 years , and why ? what are the recent example ( s ) ?
and then there 's fraud on a massive scale . in 2003 , italian dairy food giant parmalat went bankrupt after it was found to have fabricated a 4 billion dollar bank account and falsified financial statements to hide the fact that its subsidiaries had been losing money . because it was family controlled , corporate governance and regulator supervision were difficult , and the company likely hoped that the losses could be recouped before anyone found out .	parmalat falsified financial statements to hide losses from their subsidiaries .	parmalat falsified financial statements to hide losses from their subsidiaries .
cardiovascular disease was also common , as was tuberculosis . so ancient egyptians were somewhat successful at evading decay . still , like death , taxes are inevitable .	when preserving a mummy , which organ did the ancient egyptians remove first ?	when preserving a mummy , which organ did the ancient egyptians remove first ?
cardiovascular disease was also common , as was tuberculosis . so ancient egyptians were somewhat successful at evading decay . still , like death , taxes are inevitable .	ancient egyptian mummies do not show high rates of :	ancient egyptian mummies do not show high rates of :
dr. fry : oh , i thought it blunts them actually , if anything , it would probably sharpen them , right ? there are three strategies , each one of them loses once and wins once so it looks like there 's no strategy that you can play to win , but i 'm going to show you about a new paper that had just come out where it gives you some top tips of how to win so it 's a group of chinese scientists , where they run an experiment where they got 360 students to play games of rock-paper-scissors with one another 300 rounds in every game , which took up to 2 hours , which is astonishing , students playing rock-paper-scissors for 2 hours okay , so normally if you have rock-paper-scissors and some of you had rock ( r ) up there , and rock is beaten by paper ( p ) , which is then beaten by scissors ( s ) so none of these strategies dominate the other , so really all you can do is play each strategy with an equal probability : 1/3 , 1/3 , 1/3 , okay now , if you were playing against a computer , who was choosing these perfectly randomly , then that would be the best thing for you to do -- just to pick each strategy with equal probability but the thing is , humans are quite predictably irrational , so to say , in the way they choose their strategy so , in recording what one of these students did in playing rock-paper-scissors the scientists came up with two quite important findings of how people try to beat each other okay , so the first one is that people who win tend to repeat their strategy so , for example , if i beat you by playing rock , there is a very high chance , or high probability that i will play rock again the second time . if it worked once , it 's going to work again , right ?	according to this strategy , if you win your first hand using rock , what should you play in your second hand ?	according to this strategy , if you win your first hand using rock , what should you play in your second hand ?
on january 1 , 1863 , abraham lincoln legally changed the status of over 3 million enslaved blacks across ten states from slave to free . his emancipation proclamation was n't a law , or a presidential decree .	in 1863 , abraham lincoln , the president of the united states , signed an executive order changing the status of 3 million blacks in america . it was called the :	in 1863 , abraham lincoln , the president of the united states , signed an executive order changing the status of 3 million blacks in america . it was called the :
on january 1 , 1863 , abraham lincoln legally changed the status of over 3 million enslaved blacks across ten states from slave to free . his emancipation proclamation was n't a law , or a presidential decree .	in 1863 , abraham lincoln decided to issue an executive order to legally change the status of over 3 million enslaved blacks , across ten states , from “ slave ” to “ free ” . why do you think president lincoln decided to issue the emancipation proclamation as opposed to working with congress to make a law ? do you think he was overreaching his power as president ? which process , executive order or working with congress , do you think could be most effective for a president ? are there certain moments in time or certain issues that would change our opinion ?	in 1863 , abraham lincoln decided to issue an executive order to legally change the status of over 3 million enslaved blacks , across ten states , from “ slave ” to “ free ” . why do you think president lincoln decided to issue the emancipation proclamation as opposed to working with congress to make a law ? do you think he was overreaching his power as president ? which process , executive order or working with congress , do you think could be most effective for a president ? are there certain moments in time or certain issues that would change our opinion ?
well , the bbc did this with 50,000 people and discovered that a kilometer and a half away , it only registered a .6 on the richter scale . you would need 7 million times more people than even live on earth right now to jump at once to recreate the earthquake that recently happened in japan . so , even though we 're all awesome , compared to the size of the earth , we 're not much .	you would need 7 million times more people than are currently on earth in order to what ?	you would need 7 million times more people than are currently on earth in order to what ?
directly connected to the mother 's blood supply , it funnels nutrients and oxygen straight into the calf 's body via the umbilical cord , and also exports its waste . placental mammals can spend far longer inside the womb than other mammals . baby blue whales , for instance , spend almost a full year inside their mother .	monotremes are mammals that lay eggs . the word monotreme literally means :	monotremes are mammals that lay eggs . the word monotreme literally means :
directly connected to the mother 's blood supply , it funnels nutrients and oxygen straight into the calf 's body via the umbilical cord , and also exports its waste . placental mammals can spend far longer inside the womb than other mammals . baby blue whales , for instance , spend almost a full year inside their mother .	most of the mammals that exist on earth today are placental mammals . name three placental mammals from three different continents that were not mentioned in the video .	most of the mammals that exist on earth today are placental mammals . name three placental mammals from three different continents that were not mentioned in the video .
directly connected to the mother 's blood supply , it funnels nutrients and oxygen straight into the calf 's body via the umbilical cord , and also exports its waste . placental mammals can spend far longer inside the womb than other mammals . baby blue whales , for instance , spend almost a full year inside their mother .	compare and contrast placental mammals and monotremes . what do they have in common ? how do they differ ?	compare and contrast placental mammals and monotremes . what do they have in common ? how do they differ ?
the uppercase y always overpowers his lowercase friend , so the only time you get green babies is if you have lowercase y 's . in mendel 's first generation , the yellow homozygous pea mom will give each pea kid a yellow-dominant allele , and the green homozygous pea dad will give a green-recessive allele . so all the pea kids will be yellow heterozygous .	what happened to the green trait in mendel 's pea plants ?	what happened to the green trait in mendel 's pea plants ?
people are really excited if they make one or two atoms of it . so instead we are going to tell you a bit about rutherford after whom it ’ s named . and rutherford is famous because he did a whole series of experiments , or he and his co-workers , that really explained the structure of atoms and so the periodic table for the first time really began to make sense .	after which great scientist was rutherfordium named ?	after which great scientist was rutherfordium named ?
this type of bodily damage , caused by rapid changes in pressure , is called barotrauma . under the sea , pressure increases by 14.7 pounds per square inch for every 33 foot increase in depth . so , take the yelloweye rockfish , which can live as deep as 1800 feet , where there 's over 800 pounds of pressure on every square inch .	under the sea pressure increases by 14.7 pounds per square inch for every _____ foot increase in depth .	under the sea pressure increases by 14.7 pounds per square inch for every _____ foot increase in depth .
at the equator , if the earth did n't spin , and no centripetal force was required to keep you with the earth , you would weigh 0.3 percent more than you currently do . if earth spun you around 17 times faster than it currently does , all of its gravitational force would go toward centripetal force fighting against your inertia and you would be weightless . so here 's a diet idea .	if the earth spun 17 times faster than it normally does , why would we be weightless ?	if the earth spun 17 times faster than it normally does , why would we be weightless ?
sometime in the early 1750s , a 22-year-old man named benjamin banneker sat industriously carving cogs and gears out of wood . he pieced the parts together to create the complex inner working of a striking clock that would , hopefully , chime every hour . all he had to help him was a pocket watch for inspiration and his own calculations .	benjamin banneker ’ s striking clock chimed every _________ .	benjamin banneker ’ s striking clock chimed every _________ .
so , not exactly what i was hoping for , but off i went -- up the stairs , down the hall , past the 'real ' firefighters , who were pretty much done putting out the fire at this point , into the master bedroom to get a pair of shoes . now i know what you 're thinking , but i 'm no hero . ( laughter ) i carried my payload back downstairs where i met my nemesis and the precious dog by the front door .	what does it mean to be a hero ?	what does it mean to be a hero ?
so , not exactly what i was hoping for , but off i went -- up the stairs , down the hall , past the 'real ' firefighters , who were pretty much done putting out the fire at this point , into the master bedroom to get a pair of shoes . now i know what you 're thinking , but i 'm no hero . ( laughter ) i carried my payload back downstairs where i met my nemesis and the precious dog by the front door .	do you consider yourself a hero ? if so , explain how you exhibit the qualities of a hero . if not , what can you change in order to incorporate more hero like traits into your character ?	do you consider yourself a hero ? if so , explain how you exhibit the qualities of a hero . if not , what can you change in order to incorporate more hero like traits into your character ?
the identity of an atom is determined only by the number of protons in its nucleus . hydrogen is hydrogen because it has just one proton , carbon is carbon because it has six , gold is gold because it has 79 , and so on . indulge me in a momentary tangent .	why did we choose gold for the last element in the video ?	why did we choose gold for the last element in the video ?
so they came down in the morning , and there was a large hole in the bench , to show what he had done . ok so plutonium . i think plutonium is quite well known for the fact its been used in certain types of nuclear bombs .	why did the professor find it quite macabre when he met a woman at a conference who was worried about the impact of her plutonium research on the environment ?	why did the professor find it quite macabre when he met a woman at a conference who was worried about the impact of her plutonium research on the environment ?
the story of smallpox , the first and , so far , the only disease to be permanently eradicated from the world , shows how disease eradication can happen and why it is so difficult to achieve . smallpox emerged in human populations thousands of years ago as a contagious virus that spread rapidly , primarily through close , face to face contact , causing fever , aches and rashes . it killed up to 30 % of its victims and often left survivors with life-long disfiguring scars .	how does smallpox spread ?	how does smallpox spread ?
we feel an `` ick factor '' associated with them and are disgusted by the prospect of cooking insects . almost 2,000 insect species are turned into food , forming a big part of everyday diets for two billion people around the world . countries in the tropics are the keenest consumers , because culturally , it 's acceptable .	how many different insect species do people eat around the world ?	how many different insect species do people eat around the world ?
so get to the point already . variety may be the spice of life , but brevity is its bread and butter . so when it comes to $ 10 words , save your money and buy a scrabble board .	the author says , “ variety may be the spice of life , but brevity is its	the author says , “ variety may be the spice of life , but brevity is its
so what ’ s up with the wrinkled digits ? for years , scientists thought the phenomenon was the result of a type of osmosis , caused by water passing into the dry outer layer of skin . the influx of water , the thinking went , would expand the skin ’ s surface area , but not the tissue below it , so the skin would bunch up and wrinkle .	describe the process of osmosis .	describe the process of osmosis .
i weight about 190 pounds . how much will the video weigh ? asking questions like that is what i do every week on my channel vsauce .	explain why it 's beneficial to have an information media that does n't weigh anything ( or at least weighs a minute amount ) .	explain why it 's beneficial to have an information media that does n't weigh anything ( or at least weighs a minute amount ) .
but as people migrate around the world , we have also deliberately brought our plants and animals along , rarely considering the consequences . but now that we 're learning more about the effects of invasive species on ecosystems , many governments closely monitor the transport of plants and animals , and ban the imports of certain organisms . but could the species with the most drastic environmental impact be a group of primates who emerged from africa to cover most of the world ?	even though governments monitor the transport of plants and animals , what other strategies could be adopted to stop the unwanted introductions of non-native species ?	even though governments monitor the transport of plants and animals , what other strategies could be adopted to stop the unwanted introductions of non-native species ?
in accordance with his philosophy , and contrary to the practice of the time , confucius dissuaded rulers from relying on harsh punishments and military power to govern their lands because he believed that a good ruler inspires others to spontaneously follow him by virtue of his ethical charisma . confucius also believed that because the love and respect we learn in the family are fundamental to all other virtues , personal duties to family sometimes supersede obligations to the state . so when one duke bragged that his subjects were so upright that a son testified against his own father when his father stole a sheep , confucius informed the duke that genuinely upright fathers and sons protected one another .	describe confucius 's views on the importance of the family .	describe confucius 's views on the importance of the family .
without this reaction , farmers would be capable of producing enough food for only 4 billion people ; our current population is just over 7 billion people . so , without the haber process , over 3 billion people would be without food . you see , nitrogen in the form of nitrate , no3 , is an essential nutrient for plants to survive .	what impact has haber ’ s process had on the world ? should we continue to use the haber process , or should we replace it ?	what impact has haber ’ s process had on the world ? should we continue to use the haber process , or should we replace it ?
a special program for the mouse , for the clock widget , for the internet radio , and for dealing with letters sent by the keyboard . each program was initially written by a human in a human-readable programming language , like java , c++ , or python . but human programs take up a lot of space and contain a lot of unnecessary information to a computer , so they are compiled and made smaller and stored in bits of ones and zeros in memory .	why are programs saved in a different format than the human readable programming languages that they are written in ?	why are programs saved in a different format than the human readable programming languages that they are written in ?
cosmic rays were first discovered in 1912 by victor hess when he set out to explore variations in the atmosphere 's level of radiation , which had been thought to emanate from the earth 's crust . by taking measurements on board a flying balloon during an eclipse , hess demonstrated both that the radiation actually increased at greater altitudes and that the sun could not be its source . the startling conclusion was that it was n't coming from anywhere within the earth 's atmosphere but from outer space .	in 1912 , by taking measurements on board a flying balloon during an eclipse , victor hess discovered that :	in 1912 , by taking measurements on board a flying balloon during an eclipse , victor hess discovered that :
what was special was their approach . i thought about it a lot over the past few years and i found four things they did differently that made real conversation possible . these four steps were small but powerful , and i do everything i can to employ them in difficult conversations today .	what four things did megan learn that can make real conversation possible ?	what four things did megan learn that can make real conversation possible ?
put them together , and we get two almost identical but slightly different sets of 23 chapters . the tiny variations are what makes each person different . it 's estimated that all the chapters together hold about 20,000 individual instructions , called genes .	though all humans start off the same way , give a brief explanation about what makes us all so different .	though all humans start off the same way , give a brief explanation about what makes us all so different .
as a side note , you can tell a lot about how good an animal 's sense of smell is by the size of its olfactory epithelium . a dog 's olfactory epithelium is 20 times bigger than your puny human one . but there 's still a lot we do n't know about this little patch of cells , too .	a dog 's olfactory epithelium is ________ times larger than a human 's .	a dog 's olfactory epithelium is ________ times larger than a human 's .
changes to a seemingly simple event , leaves opening , has ripple effects throughout a food web . earlier bloom times can also have an economic impact . the famed cherry blossoms in washington d.c. are blooming five days earlier than before . since the cherry trees are blooming earlier , the blossoms also fade earlier , frustrating thousands of tourists who visit for the cherry blossom festival .	what is the famed washington dc plant that is affecting economic conditions because it is experiencing an earlier bud burst ?	what is the famed washington dc plant that is affecting economic conditions because it is experiencing an earlier bud burst ?
now , we ’ re only beginning to understand how complex these relationships get . but imagine the possibilities for agriculture and forestry . if we find out certain species share well across the network , maybe we can plant them near each other to yield better harvests , or grow healthier forests .	how could we potentially use an understanding of the mycorrhizal network to assist in agriculture or forestry ?	how could we potentially use an understanding of the mycorrhizal network to assist in agriculture or forestry ?
i learned to let go of the fears i had trained myself to have over the years and decided to trust myself and my body to push through situations i had thought insurmountable before . what followed those five years of injuries were nine years of not missing one race i entered for the usa national and olympic teams . because i made a decision , then another one , and held true to those two decisions , i found myself back with my team approaching 90 miles per hour .	after mesler made his decisions , he didn ’ t miss a single race he entered . how many years after his five-year stint of constant injury did mesler compete before winning the olympic gold medal ?	after mesler made his decisions , he didn ’ t miss a single race he entered . how many years after his five-year stint of constant injury did mesler compete before winning the olympic gold medal ?
as they migrated and settled in new places , they became isolated from one another and developed in different ways . centuries of living in different conditions , eating different food and encountering different neighbors turned similar dialects with varied pronunciation and vocabulary into radically different languages , continuing to divide as populations grew and spread out further . like genealogists , modern linguists try to map this process by tracing multiple languages back as far as they can to their common ancestor , or protolanguage .	what are some reasons that it ’ s impossible to give an exact number for how many different languages there are ?	what are some reasons that it ’ s impossible to give an exact number for how many different languages there are ?
well , in 1811 , someone had an idea that if you had equal volumes of gases , at the same temperature and pressure , they would contain an equal number of particles . his name was lorenzo romano amedeo carlo avogadro . i wonder how long it took him to sign autographs .	what did lorenzo romano amedeo carlo avogadro theorize in 1811 ?	what did lorenzo romano amedeo carlo avogadro theorize in 1811 ?
wernicke 's connectionist model helped explain disorders that did n't result from the dysfunction of just one area . modern neuroscience tools reveal a brain more complex than gratiolet , aubertin , or even wernicke imagined . today , the hippocampus is associated with two distinct brain functions : creating memories and processing location in space . we also now measure two kinds of connectivity : anatomical connectivity between two adjoining regions of cortex working together , and functional connectivity between separated regions working together to accomplish one process . a seemingly basic function like vision is actually composed of many smaller functions , with different parts of the cortex representing shape , color and location in space .	two types of connectivity -- when areas of the brain work together -- have been measured by modern neuroscientific methods . they are called _____ and _____ .	two types of connectivity -- when areas of the brain work together -- have been measured by modern neuroscientific methods . they are called _____ and _____ .
it 's what keeps you from running in your bed when you 're being chased in your dreams . during an episode of sleep paralysis , you 're experiencing normal components of rem . you 're dreaming and your muscles are paralyzed , only your brain is conscious and wide awake .	explain what ’ s happening in the brain and body during a normal rem cycle . what 's happening during an episode of sleep paralysis ?	explain what ’ s happening in the brain and body during a normal rem cycle . what 's happening during an episode of sleep paralysis ?
meanwhile , pink salmon have adapted to warmer waters by spawning earlier in the season to protect their sensitive eggs . and wild thyme plants in europe are producing more repellent oils to protect themselves against the herbivores that become more common when it 's warm . these plants and animals belong to a group of about 20 identified species with evolutionary adaptations to rapid climate change , including snapping turtles , wood frogs , knotweed , and silver spotted skipper butterflies . however , scientists hope to discover more species evolving in response to climate change out of 8.7 million species on the planet . for most of our planet 's astounding and precious biodiversity , evolution wo n't be the answer .	how are wild thyme plants evolving in response to climate change ?	how are wild thyme plants evolving in response to climate change ?
2001 saw the arrival of destiny , the first of four research modules , where astronauts spend approximately 36 hours a week conducting extraordinary experiments in microgravity . their schedules are packed with exercise , two hours a day to fend off muscle atrophy , station maintenance and repair , and connecting with family or awe-inspired minds around the world . but they still find time for fun , with regular movie nights and even shooting the first music video in space .	why do astronauts need to exercise two hours a day while they 're living in the space station ?	why do astronauts need to exercise two hours a day while they 're living in the space station ?
we will call it the empathy yawn . empathy is the ability to understand what someone else is feeling and partake in their emotion , a crucial ability for social animals like us . recently , neuroscientists have found that a subset of mirror neurons allows us to empathize with others ' feelings at a deeper level .	_______ is the ability to understand what someone else is feeling and partake in their emotion .	_______ is the ability to understand what someone else is feeling and partake in their emotion .
if no one ever mates with redheaded individuals , these genes could decrease . the next finger is the middle finger . the m in the middle finger should remind you of the m in the word `` mutation . ''	which of the following causes of microevolution is represented by the middle finger ?	which of the following causes of microevolution is represented by the middle finger ?
since then , the resurgence has spawned a more popular interest , with savion glover at the nexus of the crowd . considered the quintessential tap dancer , glover presents the form as a pure musician . since the 1990s , and thanks in a large part to the work of savion glover , we 've seen a rise in young people 's interest in tap dance .	since the resurgence in the 1970 's and 80 's , who is considered the quintessential tap dancer ?	since the resurgence in the 1970 's and 80 's , who is considered the quintessential tap dancer ?
the world of chocolate would change forever in 1828 with the introduction of the cocoa press by coenraad van houten of amsterdam . van houten 's invention could separate the cocoa 's natural fat , or cocoa butter . this left a powder that could be mixed into a drinkable solution or recombined with the cocoa butter to create the solid chocolate we know today .	conrad van houten invented the ______ . this allowed the separation of cocoa solids from cocoa butter .	conrad van houten invented the ______ . this allowed the separation of cocoa solids from cocoa butter .
the more frames something takes to happen , the more time it spends on screen , so the slower the action will be . the fewer frames something takes to happen , the less screen time it takes , which gives us faster action . the timing is about more than just speed , it 's also about rhythm .	the fewer frames , the ________ the action .	the fewer frames , the ________ the action .
i 'd rather go to our factories and meet with our people than go to the beach , i can tell you that . '' dave lavery , the nasa whiz who builds those robots for mars , said to me , `` we work our fingers to the bone . but it does n't seem like work .	finish this quote by dave lavery : “ we work our fingers to the bone… ”	finish this quote by dave lavery : “ we work our fingers to the bone… ”
the many sacred scriptures make up the hebrew bible , or tanakh , and hundreds of written discussions and interpretations are contained in an expansive compendium of deeper meanings , called the talmud . jews find rich , symbolic meaning in daily life . at the passover meal , every item on the menu symbolizes an aspect of the escape from slavery .	religion is an important part of human life . describe how someone following one of the five paths in the lesson might incorporate his/her faith into their daily life .	religion is an important part of human life . describe how someone following one of the five paths in the lesson might incorporate his/her faith into their daily life .
it ’ s an interesting element when you make compounds of it and dissolve it in solution it often goes pink . now this is some erbium trichloride . you ’ ll notice it ’ s very slightly pink .	what is usually the color of erbium compounds in solution , such as the erbium trichloride we saw in stephen 's lab ?	what is usually the color of erbium compounds in solution , such as the erbium trichloride we saw in stephen 's lab ?
with one exception , those don ’ t come from asteroids : they come from comets . when a comet orbits the sun , the ice on it turns to gas , dislodging dust and gravel mixed in . this material leaves the comet and tends to stay more or less in the same orbit as the comet itself .	when comets orbit the sun , the ice on them turns to gas , dislodging dust and gravel that fall away from the comet but stay in orbit , creating a puffy ribbon of debris orbiting the sun . what is the phenomenon called when earth 's orbit crosses this ribbon ?	when comets orbit the sun , the ice on them turns to gas , dislodging dust and gravel that fall away from the comet but stay in orbit , creating a puffy ribbon of debris orbiting the sun . what is the phenomenon called when earth 's orbit crosses this ribbon ?
we have historical records that allow us to know how the ancient greeks dressed , how they lived , how they fought ... but how did they think ? one natural idea is that the deepest aspects of human thought -- our ability to imagine , to be conscious , to dream -- have always been the same . another possibility is that the social transformations that have shaped our culture may have also changed the structural columns of human thought . we may all have different opinions about this .	what does mariano sigman believe are the fossils of human thought ?	what does mariano sigman believe are the fossils of human thought ?
`` and what were these crimes ? '' `` your honor , the watergate scandal was one of the grossest abuses of presidential power in history . nixon 's men broke into the democratic national committee headquarters to wiretap the offices and dig up dirt on opponents for the reelection campaign . ''	what did the watergate scandal involve ?	what did the watergate scandal involve ?
in chemistry , energetics deals with the attractive and repulsive forces between particles at the molecular level . this scale is so small that there are more water molecules in a single glass than there are known stars in the universe . and all of these trillions of molecules are constantly moving , vibrating and rotating at different rates .	which best illustrates how many water molecules exist in a glass of water ?	which best illustrates how many water molecules exist in a glass of water ?
well , light is n't really like anything we 're used to dealing with in our everyday lives . sometimes it behaves like a particle and other times it behaves like a wave , but it is n't exactly like either .	explain why light is both a wave and a particle . give one example why is behaves like a wave and then why it behaves like a particle .	explain why light is both a wave and a particle . give one example why is behaves like a wave and then why it behaves like a particle .
sugar is playing hide and seek with you . you 'd think it would be pretty easy for you to win , considering all the sugar in sodas , ice cream , candy , and big white bags labeled sugar . people get about half of their added sugars from those drinks and treats , so it might seem like sugar is hiding in plain sight , but like someone in the witness protection program , the other half is hidden in places you 'd least suspect .	can you design a 3-course meal with no added sugar ? what would you put on the plate ?	can you design a 3-course meal with no added sugar ? what would you put on the plate ?
packed into every linear , plane-polarized beam of light are right-handed and left-handed parts that rotate together to produce plane polarization . chiral molecules , placed in a beam of such light , interact differently with the two chiral components . as a result , one component of the light gets temporarily slowed down relative to the other .	van ’ t hoff postulated that chiral compounds contained at least one atom with what geometry ?	van ’ t hoff postulated that chiral compounds contained at least one atom with what geometry ?
packed into every linear , plane-polarized beam of light are right-handed and left-handed parts that rotate together to produce plane polarization . chiral molecules , placed in a beam of such light , interact differently with the two chiral components . as a result , one component of the light gets temporarily slowed down relative to the other .	can you imagine a molecule that contains two or more stereocenters , but which is not chiral ? what ’ s unique about the shape of such a molecule ?	can you imagine a molecule that contains two or more stereocenters , but which is not chiral ? what ’ s unique about the shape of such a molecule ?
packed into every linear , plane-polarized beam of light are right-handed and left-handed parts that rotate together to produce plane polarization . chiral molecules , placed in a beam of such light , interact differently with the two chiral components . as a result , one component of the light gets temporarily slowed down relative to the other .	the chiral components of a linearly polarized beam of light can be compared to everyday objects . they most closely resemble	the chiral components of a linearly polarized beam of light can be compared to everyday objects . they most closely resemble
they 've just vanished . and that is the longest run we will have in the first million digits that has one digit completely missing . with a million decimal places of pi each digit should appear approximately 100,000 time each , that makes sense , but of course it 's not exactly even , some of them do n't even make it . there are not 100,000 zeroes , zero does n't make it .	each digit is exactly 1/15th ( one fifteenth ) on an inch wide . including the first three ( 3 ) , the decimal point ( . ) and then the million decimal places , exactly how long is the piece of pi - in miles and kilometres ?	each digit is exactly 1/15th ( one fifteenth ) on an inch wide . including the first three ( 3 ) , the decimal point ( . ) and then the million decimal places , exactly how long is the piece of pi - in miles and kilometres ?
they 've just vanished . and that is the longest run we will have in the first million digits that has one digit completely missing . with a million decimal places of pi each digit should appear approximately 100,000 time each , that makes sense , but of course it 's not exactly even , some of them do n't even make it . there are not 100,000 zeroes , zero does n't make it .	the video discusses a man who memorised pi to 67,890 digits . imagine you know nothing about pi , but have to guess each digit in order . each time you get a digit wrong , you must start again from the first digit ( and your memory of the previous attempt is erased ) . on average , how many `` attempts '' will it take until you correctly recite pi to 67,890 digits , getting all of them right ? imagine throughout this process , you can speak at one digit per second . how long will this process take , including all the wrong attempts and then the successful one ?	the video discusses a man who memorised pi to 67,890 digits . imagine you know nothing about pi , but have to guess each digit in order . each time you get a digit wrong , you must start again from the first digit ( and your memory of the previous attempt is erased ) . on average , how many `` attempts '' will it take until you correctly recite pi to 67,890 digits , getting all of them right ? imagine throughout this process , you can speak at one digit per second . how long will this process take , including all the wrong attempts and then the successful one ?
during the boiling process , each type vaporizes at a precise point , then gets separately funneled into a container and collected as a liquid as it cools . separation techniques also take us to the sea . in some drought-stricken countries , the ocean is the only available water source .	which of the following is an example for a physical property that can be exploited for separation ?	which of the following is an example for a physical property that can be exploited for separation ?
they 've evolved finely tuned strategies for coping with this restricted diet . first , they extract as much energy from their food as possible . sloths have a multi-chambered stomach that takes up a third of their body , and depending on the species , they can spend five to seven days , or even weeks , processing a meal .	how have sloths evolved to extract as much energy from their food as possible ?	how have sloths evolved to extract as much energy from their food as possible ?
this creates a voltage that can drive enough current to light up the leds , though it 's conventional sources of electricity that keep them on . so what makes a material piezoelectric ? the answer depends on two factors : the materials atomic structure , and how electric charge is distributed within it .	what is the necessary condition for a material to be piezoelectric ?	what is the necessary condition for a material to be piezoelectric ?
it was about 75 percent hydrogen and almost all the rest was helium . no elements like carbon , oxygen or nitrogen existed . no iron , silver or gold .	carbon is a key element in many molecules that make up living creatures . the carbon atoms in your body ________ .	carbon is a key element in many molecules that make up living creatures . the carbon atoms in your body ________ .
in this case , the i/o subsystem decides that your mouse click is pretty important so it generates an interrupt to the cpu . `` hey , cpu ! got a click here . ''	the cpu can handle ________ of instructions a second	the cpu can handle ________ of instructions a second
in this case , the i/o subsystem decides that your mouse click is pretty important so it generates an interrupt to the cpu . `` hey , cpu ! got a click here . ''	the cpu ’ s job is	the cpu ’ s job is
and the good news is that you can change your lifestyle . exercise , a healthy diet , and weight loss all lower the risk of heart attacks , whether you 've had one before or not . doctors recommend exercising a few times a week , doing both aerobic activity and strength training .	all of the following can reduce the risk of heart attacks except which one ?	all of the following can reduce the risk of heart attacks except which one ?
the turns are most effective if her center of gravity stays constant , and a skilled dancer will be able to keep her turning axis vertical . the extended arms and torque-generating foot both help drive the fouetté . but the real secret and the reason you hardly notice the pause is that her other leg never stops moving .	what is a fouetté ?	what is a fouetté ?
let 's look at one famous episode from the poem . in the midst of their long voyage , odysseus and his crew find themselves on the mysterious island of aeaea . starving and exhausted , some of the men stumble upon a palatial home where a stunning woman welcomes them inside for a sumptuous feast .	during his long journey odysseus visits another dangerous island where a special fruit grows . called the lotus , anyone who tastes just a bit of its delicious flesh perpetually wants more . indeed , the effect is so strong that lotus eaters never again leave the island once they start feeding . now , unlike the circe story , we do not have any evidence supporting the idea of a greek island with fruit similar to the lotus growing on it . but that does not mean that the idea of the lotus came entirely out of thin air . can you propose any explanations for where the lotus concept might have come from ?	during his long journey odysseus visits another dangerous island where a special fruit grows . called the lotus , anyone who tastes just a bit of its delicious flesh perpetually wants more . indeed , the effect is so strong that lotus eaters never again leave the island once they start feeding . now , unlike the circe story , we do not have any evidence supporting the idea of a greek island with fruit similar to the lotus growing on it . but that does not mean that the idea of the lotus came entirely out of thin air . can you propose any explanations for where the lotus concept might have come from ?
let 's look at one famous episode from the poem . in the midst of their long voyage , odysseus and his crew find themselves on the mysterious island of aeaea . starving and exhausted , some of the men stumble upon a palatial home where a stunning woman welcomes them inside for a sumptuous feast .	is the tale of odysseus ’ s visit to aeaea mythology or history ? why do think so ? what is the difference between mythology and history ?	is the tale of odysseus ’ s visit to aeaea mythology or history ? why do think so ? what is the difference between mythology and history ?
instead , these beliefs are mostly based on what you 've been told . without spoken and written testimonies , human beings could not pass on knowledge from one person to another , let alone from one generation to another . we would know much , much less about the world around us .	the acy is a standardized test given to all high school seniors in fredonia . 85 % of the students who score a 30 or higher on the acy will graduate from university . akiko is one of 10 students who have just scored a 25 on the acy . how confident should you be that akiko will graduate from university ?	the acy is a standardized test given to all high school seniors in fredonia . 85 % of the students who score a 30 or higher on the acy will graduate from university . akiko is one of 10 students who have just scored a 25 on the acy . how confident should you be that akiko will graduate from university ?
by relying on makeup , or keshou , and facial expressions instead of masks and focusing on historical events and everyday life rather than folk tales , kabuki set itself apart from the upper-class dance theater form known as noh and provided a unique commentary on society during the edo period . at first , the dance was practiced only by females and commonly referred to as onna-kabuki . it soon evolved to an ensemble performance and became a regular attraction at tea houses , drawing audiences from all social classes .	what are the major differences between the dance form izumo no okuni established and onna-kabuki , wakashu-kabuki , and yaro-kabuki ?	what are the major differences between the dance form izumo no okuni established and onna-kabuki , wakashu-kabuki , and yaro-kabuki ?
rising air is the first ingredient needed for a tornado to develop . any storm is formed when condensation occurs , the byproducts of the clouds . condensation releases heat , and heat becomes the energy that drives huge upward drafts of air .	more condensation means :	more condensation means :
but most of us do n't have the luxury of a captive audience . we 're competing against a whole world of distractions and we 're fighting for space in an attention span that continues to shrink across generations . so get to the point already .	the author thinks that speakers and writers are “ fighting for space in an attention span that continues to shrink across generations. ” what does she mean by this , and do you think it ’ s true ? if it is true , what ’ s driving it , and is it necessarily a bad thing ? if it ’ s false , why do you think the author ( and other people too ) have this impression ?	the author thinks that speakers and writers are “ fighting for space in an attention span that continues to shrink across generations. ” what does she mean by this , and do you think it ’ s true ? if it is true , what ’ s driving it , and is it necessarily a bad thing ? if it ’ s false , why do you think the author ( and other people too ) have this impression ?
thorium itself as a metal is quite frisky and if you heat it in air it burns incredibly intensely . it ’ s also a component of lenses for cameras because when it ’ s mixed in with certain other elements to give you these lenses , it has a very high refractive index and a very low dispersion , which means you get really sharp images ; possibly in the lens that you ’ re filming me with right now .	where did steve say one could find thorium in brady ’ s video equipment ?	where did steve say one could find thorium in brady ’ s video equipment ?
thorium itself as a metal is quite frisky and if you heat it in air it burns incredibly intensely . it ’ s also a component of lenses for cameras because when it ’ s mixed in with certain other elements to give you these lenses , it has a very high refractive index and a very low dispersion , which means you get really sharp images ; possibly in the lens that you ’ re filming me with right now .	thorium is not exactly a rare element ; in the earth ’ s crust , it is almost as abundant as lead . at about 12 ppm in the earth ’ s crust , which position do you think thorium occupies in the table of most abundant elements ?	thorium is not exactly a rare element ; in the earth ’ s crust , it is almost as abundant as lead . at about 12 ppm in the earth ’ s crust , which position do you think thorium occupies in the table of most abundant elements ?
thorium itself as a metal is quite frisky and if you heat it in air it burns incredibly intensely . it ’ s also a component of lenses for cameras because when it ’ s mixed in with certain other elements to give you these lenses , it has a very high refractive index and a very low dispersion , which means you get really sharp images ; possibly in the lens that you ’ re filming me with right now .	with a half-life of 14 billion years ( it was present when our planet formed ) , which is the most abundant thorium isotope in nature ?	with a half-life of 14 billion years ( it was present when our planet formed ) , which is the most abundant thorium isotope in nature ?
thorium itself as a metal is quite frisky and if you heat it in air it burns incredibly intensely . it ’ s also a component of lenses for cameras because when it ’ s mixed in with certain other elements to give you these lenses , it has a very high refractive index and a very low dispersion , which means you get really sharp images ; possibly in the lens that you ’ re filming me with right now .	of the 30 known isotopes of thorium , which one does not occur naturally ?	of the 30 known isotopes of thorium , which one does not occur naturally ?
most of us assume , therefore , that water shortages can be fixed by improving our personal habits : taking shorter showers or turning off the water while we brush our teeth . but , global fresh water scarcity neither starts nor ends in your shower . globally , domestic use of fresh water accounts for only 8 % of consumption , 8 % ! ! compare that to the 70 % that goes to agriculture and the 22 % that goes to industrial uses .	devise a solution for providing unlimited amounts of fresh water . in a few bullet points , explain your idea .	devise a solution for providing unlimited amounts of fresh water . in a few bullet points , explain your idea .
let 's take a look at how it works . every lever consists of three main components : the effort arm , the resistance arm , and the fulcrum . in this case , your weight is the effort force , while your friend 's weight provides the resistance force . what archimedes learned was that there is an important relationship between the magnitudes of these forces and their distances from the fulcrum .	how far from the fulcrum on the effort arm would you have to place a 5 kg weight in order to balance a 10 kg weight that is 3 meters from the fulcrum ?	how far from the fulcrum on the effort arm would you have to place a 5 kg weight in order to balance a 10 kg weight that is 3 meters from the fulcrum ?
policymaking is an effort to freeze and perpetuate a particular flow of power . policy is power frozen . law number three : power compounds .	explain the statement : policy is frozen power .	explain the statement : policy is frozen power .
when you went to get a shot , the words , `` this wo n't hurt a bit , '' became a conditioned stimulus when they were paired with pain of the shot , the unconditioned stimulus , which was followed by your conditioned response of getting the heck out of there . classical conditioning in action . operant conditioning explains how consequences lead to changes in voluntary behavior . so how does operant conditioning work ? there are two main components in operant conditioning : reinforcement and punishment .	what 's the best concise definition of operant conditioning ?	what 's the best concise definition of operant conditioning ?
when a breeze flows over a hill , the air is deflected over the top . this pulls air along too , just like when i blew over the paper , drawing air out of the ant hill along the way . the ants build lower entrances nearby , where air is drawn in to replace it , ventilating the whole colony with a little breeze .	in order to condition its air , what organ does the anthill act like ?	in order to condition its air , what organ does the anthill act like ?
and one of particular use and interest in the 50s was one called pentaborane , which basically : penta , five , it ’ s got five borons in it . and pentaborate was investigated during the cold war or in the early part of the cold war as being a rocket fuel . it actually burns with a green flame .	“ green dragon ” was used as a rocket fuel during the end of the cold war . which compound of boron was it ?	“ green dragon ” was used as a rocket fuel during the end of the cold war . which compound of boron was it ?
`` hm , so who came to power ? '' `` the duma formed a provisional government , led by alexander kerensky , an incompetent bourgeois failure . he even launched another failed offensive in the war , where russia had already lost so much , instead of ending it like the people wanted . ''	what mistakes did kerensky make that resulted in his overthrow after only a few months ?	what mistakes did kerensky make that resulted in his overthrow after only a few months ?
it 's a lot like the rotational symmetry of the triangle we watched earlier . but when it occurs in animals , this kind of symmetry is known as radial symmetry . for instance , some sea urchins and starfish have pentaradial or five-fold symmetry , that is , symmetry with respect to rotations of 72 degrees around their center . this symmetry also appears in plants , as you can see for yourself by slicing through an apple horizontally . some jellyfish are symmetric with respect to rotations of 90 degrees , while sea anemones are symmetric when you rotate them at any angle .	pentraradial symmetry is ________ .	pentraradial symmetry is ________ .
have you ever talked with a friend about a problem only to realize that he just does n't seem to grasp why the issue is so important to you ? have you ever presented an idea to a group and it 's met with utter confusion ?	which of these activities is the most intentional ?	which of these activities is the most intentional ?
audience : yeah ! ( applause ) danit peleg : rebecca is wearing one of my five outfits . almost everything here she 's wearing , i printed from my home . even her shoes are printed . audience : wow !	danit peleg is wearing a skirt that she 3d printed herself at home . how long did it take her to print it ?	danit peleg is wearing a skirt that she 3d printed herself at home . how long did it take her to print it ?
if you count all the stars in our galaxy , and you also count at five stars per second , it would take you more than 1,000 years to count all the stars in our galaxy . and then , if you manage to count the galaxies in the universe , if you count five galaxies per second , it would take you also more than 1,000 years to count all of the galaxies in the universe . so the numbers are just astronomical , there 's a lot of opportunities for exoplanets .	if you counted all the galaxies in the universe at five galaxies per second , how long would it take you to count all the galaxies ?	if you counted all the galaxies in the universe at five galaxies per second , how long would it take you to count all the galaxies ?
it is one of the few that i have actually made myself when i was at school . boron sits on top of the group 13 . its atomic number is 5 , so it is a metalloid , so elemental boron is a metalloid which basically means that it has some of the properties of a non metal and some of the properties of a metal . i mixed an oxide of boron with magnesium , heated it up and then , it is a really dramatic reaction when you add water at the end to try and destroy the magnesium boride that has formed because you get puffs of gas coming off which burst into flames rather like little anti-aircraft guns .	is boron a metal or a non-metal ?	is boron a metal or a non-metal ?
this would result in less sunlight being absorbed , and lead to a cycle of cooling , as in previous ice ages . arctic sea ice is also responsible for another feedback mechanism through insulation . by forming a layer on the ocean 's surface , the ice acts as a buffer between the frigid arctic air and the relatively warmer water underneath .	a thinning sea ice cover can increase air temperatures because :	a thinning sea ice cover can increase air temperatures because :
however , music pervaded more aspects of their lives than just education . ancient greeks considered music to be the basis for understanding the fundamental interconnectedness of all things in the universe . this concept of connectivity is known as harmonia , and it 's where we get the word harmony .	the ancient greek concept that music was the key to understanding “ the fundamental interconnectedness of all things in the universe ” was called what ?	the ancient greek concept that music was the key to understanding “ the fundamental interconnectedness of all things in the universe ” was called what ?
but what are they anyway , and are they actually bad for you ? those spots are evidence of an epic battle between plants and microbes . like humans , plants coexist with billions of fungi and bacteria . some of these microbes are beneficial to the plant , suppressing disease and helping it extract nutrients .	domestication often increases susceptibility to diseases . how different are the plants that you see in the grocery store from their ‘ wild ’ ancestor ? how might the changes in features make the plants more attractive to a pathogen ?	domestication often increases susceptibility to diseases . how different are the plants that you see in the grocery store from their ‘ wild ’ ancestor ? how might the changes in features make the plants more attractive to a pathogen ?
during a meeting of the first united states congress , representative james madison stood on the house floor to propose the very amendments he had previously believed to be unnecessary . after much debate and revision , first in the congress , and then in the states , ten amendments were ratified on december 15 , 1791 , over three years after the us constitution had become law . today , every sentence , word , and punctuation mark in the bill of rights is still considered fundamental to the freedoms americans enjoy , even though the original framers left them out .	the first ten amendments were added to the constitution in :	the first ten amendments were added to the constitution in :
i really tried to take in what it meant to be a fantastic dj . one of the best ways to really learn is to ask a friend , you know , a friend who knows how to dj . just go over there , ask him a few questions .	plante says that the best way to really learn is to ________ .	plante says that the best way to really learn is to ________ .
but there ’ s a ton that we don ’ t know about these weird underwater salt lakes -- like how brine pools can be so different from each other -- and why some have mussels and others don ’ t -- and even how many there are ! number four : milky seas . also known as mareel , this is a phenomenon in which thousands of square kilometers of the ocean ’ s surface glow a brilliant whitish-blue .	what is one theory for what causes the milky “ glowing ” effect in the seas ?	what is one theory for what causes the milky “ glowing ” effect in the seas ?
this collection of pointy curves fascinates mathematicians . they 've given us barbier 's theorem , which says that the perimeter of any curve of constant width , not just a circle , equals pi times the diameter . another theorem tells us that if you had a bunch of curves of constant width with the same width , they would all have the same perimeter , but the reuleaux triangle would have the smallest area .	barbier 's theorem says that _____ .	barbier 's theorem says that _____ .
such disruption can cause vivid hallucinations , bizarre behaviors , and general difficulty distinguishing fantasy from reality , just the sorts of things which might make people believe they 've been turned into animals , which also suggests that circe was no sorceress , but in fact a chemist who knew how to use local plants to great effect . but jimson weed is only half the story . unlike a lot of material in the odyssey , the text about the herb that hermes gives to odysseus is unusually specific .	why would a flower that can help stave off polio and alzheimer 's disease be of any use against jimson weed ?	why would a flower that can help stave off polio and alzheimer 's disease be of any use against jimson weed ?
plugging in a charger draws the electricity from a wall outlet that drives the reaction to regenerate the metal , making more electrons available for oxidation the next time you need them . but even rechargeable batteries do n't last forever . over time , the repetition of this process causes imperfections and irregularities in the metal 's surface that prevent it from oxidizing properly .	why do rechargeable batteries eventually lose their ability to be recharged ?	why do rechargeable batteries eventually lose their ability to be recharged ?
many of the predators we 've discovered had head and body shapes that made them uniquely adapted to hunt the different types and sizes of aquatic prey . this allowed many kem kem predators to take full advantage of the one abundant food source in this environment : fish . this also allowed them to avoid direct competition with the predators going after land-loving animals .	abundant giant fish provided a food source for which unusual predatory dinosaur ?	abundant giant fish provided a food source for which unusual predatory dinosaur ?
sea turtles are miraculous . first , they 've been around since the late jurassic , roughly 150 million years ago .	how long have sea turtles been around ?	how long have sea turtles been around ?
sea turtles are miraculous . first , they 've been around since the late jurassic , roughly 150 million years ago .	approximately how many decades does it take a female sea turtle to reach the stage where she can return to the beach and nest herself ?	approximately how many decades does it take a female sea turtle to reach the stage where she can return to the beach and nest herself ?
sea turtles are miraculous . first , they 've been around since the late jurassic , roughly 150 million years ago .	sea turtles face a considerable array of threats throughout the course of their journey to adulthood . which presents a larger collective threat - predatory and environmental factors or human-caused negative impacts ? to extend the exercise , try arguing both positions - using factors such as percentage impact , duration of effect , novelty of manifestation , and degree of mitigation possible through ( human ) intervention . further yet , if you were challenged with creating a species recovery program for sea turtles , where would you focus your energies and efforts ? why ?	sea turtles face a considerable array of threats throughout the course of their journey to adulthood . which presents a larger collective threat - predatory and environmental factors or human-caused negative impacts ? to extend the exercise , try arguing both positions - using factors such as percentage impact , duration of effect , novelty of manifestation , and degree of mitigation possible through ( human ) intervention . further yet , if you were challenged with creating a species recovery program for sea turtles , where would you focus your energies and efforts ? why ?
at the time of their publication in amsterdam in 1725 , they were accompanied by poems describing exactly what feature of that season vivaldi intended to capture in musical terms . in providing specific plot content for instrumental music , vivaldi was generations ahead of his time . if one were to read the poems simultaneously to hearing the music , one would find the poetic scenes synchronizing nicely with the musical imagery .	what is the term for instrumental music that has a story to tell ?	what is the term for instrumental music that has a story to tell ?
at the time of their publication in amsterdam in 1725 , they were accompanied by poems describing exactly what feature of that season vivaldi intended to capture in musical terms . in providing specific plot content for instrumental music , vivaldi was generations ahead of his time . if one were to read the poems simultaneously to hearing the music , one would find the poetic scenes synchronizing nicely with the musical imagery .	in music , the term “ key ” refers to a particular set of notes that are emphasized , thereby giving a composition a particular mood . in the broader realm of music theory , there are many different keys , though the two that are most frequently used – and easiest to hear – are major keys and minor keys . major keys tend to sound bright and happy ; minor keys tend to sound dark and sad . listening to vivaldi ’ s music , try to notice when the music shifts from one of those keys to another . do those shifts help you to keep track of what seasonal scene is being captured ? ( note : just because something is played fast or loud doesn ’ t mean it ’ s necessarily happy ; also , slow or quiet isn ’ t always sad . )	in music , the term “ key ” refers to a particular set of notes that are emphasized , thereby giving a composition a particular mood . in the broader realm of music theory , there are many different keys , though the two that are most frequently used – and easiest to hear – are major keys and minor keys . major keys tend to sound bright and happy ; minor keys tend to sound dark and sad . listening to vivaldi ’ s music , try to notice when the music shifts from one of those keys to another . do those shifts help you to keep track of what seasonal scene is being captured ? ( note : just because something is played fast or loud doesn ’ t mean it ’ s necessarily happy ; also , slow or quiet isn ’ t always sad . )
scientists have been investigating this superpower because zebrafish retina are also structured very much like human retina . scientists can even mimic the effects of disorders like usher syndrome or retinitis pigmentosa on the zebrafish eye . this allows them to see how zebrafish go about repairing their retinas so they might use similar tactics to fix human eyes one day , too .	retinitis pigmentosa and usher 's syndrome cause patients to slowly become	retinitis pigmentosa and usher 's syndrome cause patients to slowly become
where the sidewalk ends , by shel silverstein . there is a place where the sidewalk ends and before the street begins , and there the grass grows soft and white , and there the sun burns crimson bright , and there the moon-bird rests from his flight to cool in the peppermint wind . let us leave this place where the smoke blows black and the dark street winds and bends .	how is the grass described in the poem ?	how is the grass described in the poem ?
where the sidewalk ends , by shel silverstein . there is a place where the sidewalk ends and before the street begins , and there the grass grows soft and white , and there the sun burns crimson bright , and there the moon-bird rests from his flight to cool in the peppermint wind . let us leave this place where the smoke blows black and the dark street winds and bends .	the author uses the phrase `` peppermint wind '' . what feelings or images does this phrase evoke when you hear it ?	the author uses the phrase `` peppermint wind '' . what feelings or images does this phrase evoke when you hear it ?
the key is to carefully formulate our questions so that any answer yields useful information . first of all , we can get around to not knowing what 'ozo ' and 'ulu ' mean by including the words themselves in the questions , and secondly , if we load each question with a hypothetical condition , whether an alien is lying or not wo n't actually matter . to see how that could work , imagine our question is whether two plus two is four .	what do the words ‘ ozo ’ and ‘ ulu ’ mean ?	what do the words ‘ ozo ’ and ‘ ulu ’ mean ?
the key is to carefully formulate our questions so that any answer yields useful information . first of all , we can get around to not knowing what 'ozo ' and 'ulu ' mean by including the words themselves in the questions , and secondly , if we load each question with a hypothetical condition , whether an alien is lying or not wo n't actually matter . to see how that could work , imagine our question is whether two plus two is four .	how do we get around the problem of not knowing which alien will tell the truth ?	how do we get around the problem of not knowing which alien will tell the truth ?
the queen is the core of a healthy hive . but nowadays , the millions of queen bees distributed in commercial hives are bred from just a few original queens , which raises the worry about a lack of genetic diversity which could weaken bees ' defenses against pathogens and pests . exhibit c : chemicals .	what could be the value of wild bees in this scenario ?	what could be the value of wild bees in this scenario ?
but sometimes , the immune system accidentally discriminates against harmless substances , like pollen . when it wafts in again , antibodies on the surface of white blood cells recognize it and latch on . this triggers the cell to release inflammatory chemicals , like histamine , which stimulate nerve cells , and cause blood vessels in the mucous membranes to swell and leak fluid . in other words , itchiness , sneezing , congestion , and a runny nose .	when these cells recognize an allergen , they release chemicals . these include :	when these cells recognize an allergen , they release chemicals . these include :
except one . today , scientists believe that the answer lies in a previously unknown kind of matter , called dark matter . this dark matter can be envisioned as a cloud which surrounds most galaxies . this matter is very unusual . it is affected by gravity , but it is invisible to visible light and all other forms of electromagnetic radiation .	scientists have never observed dark matter and have inferred its existence from indirect measurements . some critics , who are typically not scientists , have claimed that the dark matter hypothesis is an example of scientists inventing a concept so as to save their theories of gravity and motion . some have even characterized dark matter as ‘ something that you can ’ t see , but it holds the universe together ’ and have drawn parallels with religious statements . do you think these claims are valid ? explain your reasoning .	scientists have never observed dark matter and have inferred its existence from indirect measurements . some critics , who are typically not scientists , have claimed that the dark matter hypothesis is an example of scientists inventing a concept so as to save their theories of gravity and motion . some have even characterized dark matter as ‘ something that you can ’ t see , but it holds the universe together ’ and have drawn parallels with religious statements . do you think these claims are valid ? explain your reasoning .
except one . today , scientists believe that the answer lies in a previously unknown kind of matter , called dark matter . this dark matter can be envisioned as a cloud which surrounds most galaxies . this matter is very unusual . it is affected by gravity , but it is invisible to visible light and all other forms of electromagnetic radiation .	what 's the best description of dark matter ?	what 's the best description of dark matter ?
except one . today , scientists believe that the answer lies in a previously unknown kind of matter , called dark matter . this dark matter can be envisioned as a cloud which surrounds most galaxies . this matter is very unusual . it is affected by gravity , but it is invisible to visible light and all other forms of electromagnetic radiation .	which is not true about dark matter ?	which is not true about dark matter ?
it was n't until around 2500 b.c . that the first written number system began to take form in mesopotamia , using the units one , ten , and sixty . fast forward another three millennia to seventh century india where mathematicians used a single dot to distinguish between numbers like 25 , 205 , and 250 .	when and where did the first written numeral system begin to take form ?	when and where did the first written numeral system begin to take form ?
well , the parabola 's vertex shows us his maximum height off the ground at 1.038 meters , and the x-intercepts tell us when he took off and when he landed , with the difference being the hang time . it looks like earth 's gravity makes it pretty hard for even mj to get some solid hang time . but what if he were playing an away game somewhere else , somewhere far ?	what is the acceleration due to gravity on earth ?	what is the acceleration due to gravity on earth ?
well , the parabola 's vertex shows us his maximum height off the ground at 1.038 meters , and the x-intercepts tell us when he took off and when he landed , with the difference being the hang time . it looks like earth 's gravity makes it pretty hard for even mj to get some solid hang time . but what if he were playing an away game somewhere else , somewhere far ?	on earth , how high would a person have to jump to have a hang time of 1 second ? what would the equation of this jump look like ?	on earth , how high would a person have to jump to have a hang time of 1 second ? what would the equation of this jump look like ?
will our brains one day be able to self-repair ? it 's well known that embryonic cells in our young developing brains produce new neurons , the microscopic units that make up the brain 's tissue . those newly generated neurons migrate to various parts of the developing brain , making it self-organize into different structures . but until recently , scientists thought cell production came to an abrupt halt soon after this initial growth , leading them to conclude that neurological diseases , like alzheimer 's and parkinson 's , and damaging events , like strokes , are irreversible .	which of the following is not an area where new neurons are generated ?	which of the following is not an area where new neurons are generated ?
undeterred , alfred moved his lab and began experimenting with additives , eventually finding one that transformed the dangerous liquid into malleable paste , easier to handle and perfect for construction sites . he named this material dynamite , from the greek dunamis , meaning power , and the common scientific suffix -ite . explosives made alfred a very wealthy man .	what do the words dynamite and dynasty have in common ?	what do the words dynamite and dynasty have in common ?
why were these elements spotted so easily ? think of the periodic table as a puzzle . the corner pieces are edges of a puzzle , are generally the easiest to find and place because they stand out with their smooth edges , and clearly do n't interlock with other puzzle pieces .	pick your favorite element . explain the reasons it sits where it does on the periodic table .	pick your favorite element . explain the reasons it sits where it does on the periodic table .
the escaping air meets resistance from the lip muscles , forms an opening called the aperture and creates the vibration that brass players call `` the buzz . '' when a mouthpiece is held up to those vibrating lips , it slightly refines the buzz , amplifying the vibration at certain frequencies . but things get really interesting depending on what instrument is attached to that mouthpiece .	the buzz results from _____ .	the buzz results from _____ .
all you need are some simple tools and a bit of chemistry . first up , the anti-counterfeit detection pen . the pen looks like a highlighter and contains a solution of potassium iodide and elemental iodine .	counterfeit detection pens contain solutions of potassium iodide and _____ ?	counterfeit detection pens contain solutions of potassium iodide and _____ ?
all you need are some simple tools and a bit of chemistry . first up , the anti-counterfeit detection pen . the pen looks like a highlighter and contains a solution of potassium iodide and elemental iodine .	the counterfeit detection pen detects a counterfeit by leaving a dark mark on a bill when a reaction occurs between _____ and _____ .	the counterfeit detection pen detects a counterfeit by leaving a dark mark on a bill when a reaction occurs between _____ and _____ .
but instead of circles on a two-dimensional surface , the wave fronts are now concentric spheres , with the sound traveling along rays perpendicular to these waves . now imagine a moving sound source , such as a train whistle . as the source keeps moving in a certain direction , the successive waves in front of it will become bunched closer together .	if a train is travelling towards you , the train whistle sounds _____	if a train is travelling towards you , the train whistle sounds _____
so we could have all these possible combinations : round yellow peas , round green peas , wrinkled yellow peas , wrinkled green peas . to calculate the proportions for each genotype and phenotype , we can use a punnett square too . of course , this will make it a little more complex .	what do we call the table used to calculate the probability of an offspring 's genotype ?	what do we call the table used to calculate the probability of an offspring 's genotype ?
so we could have all these possible combinations : round yellow peas , round green peas , wrinkled yellow peas , wrinkled green peas . to calculate the proportions for each genotype and phenotype , we can use a punnett square too . of course , this will make it a little more complex .	in a few words , describe the differences in a recessive phenotype and a dominant genotype .	in a few words , describe the differences in a recessive phenotype and a dominant genotype .
but that 's living , not standing around in a crowd , which is how we would probably want to do the jump . if every single person alive right now on earth stood shoulder to shoulder , you could fit all of us into the city of los angeles . it would be an incredible sight to behold - a mere 500 square miles containing every single person on earth .	if the earth 's entire human population stood shoulder to shoulder , we could all fit into	if the earth 's entire human population stood shoulder to shoulder , we could all fit into
oddly enough , it makes this figure eight pattern , known as the sun 's analemma , but why ? the earth 's movement creates a few cycles . first of all , it rotates on its axis about once every 24 hours , producing sunrises and sunsets .	the earth experiences different seasons because the earth ___________ .	the earth experiences different seasons because the earth ___________ .
and not surprisingly , touch turns out to be crucial for romance . in this experiment , not realizing the study had begun , participants were asked to briefly hold the coffee , either hot or iced . later , the participants read a story about a hypothetical person , and were asked to rate their personality . those who had held the hot cup of coffee perceived the person in the story as happier , more social , more generous and better-natured than those who had held the cup of iced coffee , who rated the person as cold , stoic , and unaffectionate . if a potential mate has managed to pass all these tests , there 's still one more : the infamous first kiss , a rich and complex exchange of tactile and chemical cues , such as the smell of one 's breath , and the taste of their mouth .	in the coffee study , participants who held the hot coffee rated the hypothetical person as ____________ ?	in the coffee study , participants who held the hot coffee rated the hypothetical person as ____________ ?
the fact is , cartoons have been around a long time . there are all kinds of cartoons : strip comics , comic books , political cartoons , single-panel cartoons , graphic novels , web comics , animation , caricature , there is something for everyone . no matter the form them come in , cartoons elicit all kinds of emotions from the viewer - happiness , sadness , anger , hilarity , calm - and can transmit ideas in an instant .	pick a topic ( personal , political , social ) and sketch a single panel cartoon . document your process and explain what you found to be the most difficult .	pick a topic ( personal , political , social ) and sketch a single panel cartoon . document your process and explain what you found to be the most difficult .
kingsley could out-survive him any day ! but when it comes to breaking rules , perhaps no female traveler was as daring as alexandra david-neel . alexandra , who had studied eastern religions at home in france , wanted desperately to prove herself to parisian scholars of the day , all of whom were men .	what did alexandra david-neel do when she was prevented from crossing the tibetan border ?	what did alexandra david-neel do when she was prevented from crossing the tibetan border ?
[ to date thousands of syrian families have arrived in canada . ] each syrian family is thinking about someone who 's left behind ... if it was a brother , if it was a mother , or if it was a father .	each syrian family , mohammed said , is thinking about family members left behind . `` this is something that i can relate to on a personal level because of the situation with my family , '' mohammed said . describe the relationship that mohammed has with the refugees that he assists . how does mohammed 's personal experience aid and impact his ability to support recently arrived refugees ?	each syrian family , mohammed said , is thinking about family members left behind . `` this is something that i can relate to on a personal level because of the situation with my family , '' mohammed said . describe the relationship that mohammed has with the refugees that he assists . how does mohammed 's personal experience aid and impact his ability to support recently arrived refugees ?
but what she smells , that 's a totally different story . and it begins at her wonderfully developed nose . as your dog catches the first hints of fresh air , her nose 's moist , spongy outside helps capture any scents the breeze carries . the ability to smell separately with each nostril , smelling in stereo , helps to determine the direction of the smell 's source so that within the first few moments of sniffing , the dog starts to become aware of not just what kind of things are out there but also where they 're located . as air enters the nose , a small fold of tissue divides it into two separate folds , one for breathing and one just for smelling .	dogs can smell separately with each nostril . this is an advantage . why ? choose the answers from the following list : a. they can exhale out one nostril and inhale in the other b. they can determine what is out there c. it allows them to keep their nose moist and spongy d. they can determine the location of the smell	dogs can smell separately with each nostril . this is an advantage . why ? choose the answers from the following list : a. they can exhale out one nostril and inhale in the other b. they can determine what is out there c. it allows them to keep their nose moist and spongy d. they can determine the location of the smell
and the middle-size one is really spongy . but what was interesting was the adult triceratops was also spongy . and this is a skull that is two meters long .	why was the adult triceratops skull that jack horner cut into in his lab also spongy ?	why was the adult triceratops skull that jack horner cut into in his lab also spongy ?
and that was n't easy because poisons were everywhere . if we take this one , arsenic trioxide , arsenic trioxide 's probably the most famous homicidal poison in history and it was in every home . anyone could go to the grocery store or the pharmacy and buy it .	why is arsenic trioxide the most famous homicidal poison in history ?	why is arsenic trioxide the most famous homicidal poison in history ?
i was given a life term . [ ♪ music ♪ ] a lot of times what lands people in prison [ fleet maull - prison mindfulness institute ] and what brings them back is a lack of good problem-solving skills and good communication skills . [ ♪ music ♪ ] [ richman ] fleet approached us asking if he could do some work in here .	fleet maull says that what lands people in prison and what brings them back are the lack of ____________ and communication skills .	fleet maull says that what lands people in prison and what brings them back are the lack of ____________ and communication skills .
i was given a life term . [ ♪ music ♪ ] a lot of times what lands people in prison [ fleet maull - prison mindfulness institute ] and what brings them back is a lack of good problem-solving skills and good communication skills . [ ♪ music ♪ ] [ richman ] fleet approached us asking if he could do some work in here .	what might be some everyday problem solving or communication skills fleet maull is referring to ? how might these skills support a person to make positive choices in lieu of negative choices ?	what might be some everyday problem solving or communication skills fleet maull is referring to ? how might these skills support a person to make positive choices in lieu of negative choices ?
mirror neurons are a type of brain cell that responds equally when we perform an action as when we see someone else perform the same action . these neurons are important for learning and self-awareness . for example , watching someone do something physical , like knitting or putting on lipstick , can help you do those same actions more accurately .	mirror neurons are important for learning and self-awareness . why do you think watching someone tie their shoelaces can help you better tie your own shoelaces ?	mirror neurons are important for learning and self-awareness . why do you think watching someone tie their shoelaces can help you better tie your own shoelaces ?
they are everywhere . and they come in many guises , multi-colored and many-shaped , they range in size from just a few millimeters to mere specks that are only visible through a microscope . but their real advantage in the quest for ocean domination is their incredible endurance , which allows them to persist in an environment for generations because their artificial makeup makes them unable to biodegrade .	how many major gyres are there in the world ’ s oceans ?	how many major gyres are there in the world ’ s oceans ?
our hydrogen formed from a high-energy soup of particles in the three minutes that followed the birth of our universe . eventually , clusters of atoms accumulated and formed stars . within these stars , nuclear reactions fused light elements , such as hydrogen and helium , to form heavier elements , such as carbon and oxygen .	what process in stars played a role in the formation of the universe ?	what process in stars played a role in the formation of the universe ?
simultaneously , the internal urethral sphincter opens . this is called the micturition reflex . the brain can counter it if it 's not a good time to urinate by sending another signal to contract the external urethral sphincter .	in the micturition reflex , as the bladder fills , a reflex nerve signal from the spinal cord to the bladder causes :	in the micturition reflex , as the bladder fills , a reflex nerve signal from the spinal cord to the bladder causes :
simultaneously , the internal urethral sphincter opens . this is called the micturition reflex . the brain can counter it if it 's not a good time to urinate by sending another signal to contract the external urethral sphincter .	if a person had a spinal cord injury , what could happen to the micturition reflex and what issues could this person face ?	if a person had a spinal cord injury , what could happen to the micturition reflex and what issues could this person face ?
they 've adapted to a unique environment of living in the water . and what i 'm going to tell you about is how whales make sounds by basically farting with their face . you know that they do this farting thing with their blowhole ; they blow out air like that , but they also use air in lots of other ways .	toothed whales , such as dolphins , make echolocation sounds by vibrating a fatty structure derived from the :	toothed whales , such as dolphins , make echolocation sounds by vibrating a fatty structure derived from the :
they 've adapted to a unique environment of living in the water . and what i 'm going to tell you about is how whales make sounds by basically farting with their face . you know that they do this farting thing with their blowhole ; they blow out air like that , but they also use air in lots of other ways .	baleen whales , such as blue whales , make sounds by vibrating folds and a sac in the :	baleen whales , such as blue whales , make sounds by vibrating folds and a sac in the :
there are ongoing debates on the consequences and ethics of such radical alterations to our genetic fabric . besides radiation , variation in gravitational strength is another challenge for space travelers . until we develop artificial gravity in a space ship or on another planet , we should assume that astronauts will spend time living in microgravity .	what feature of space causes changes in muscle strength in astronauts ?	what feature of space causes changes in muscle strength in astronauts ?
there are ongoing debates on the consequences and ethics of such radical alterations to our genetic fabric . besides radiation , variation in gravitational strength is another challenge for space travelers . until we develop artificial gravity in a space ship or on another planet , we should assume that astronauts will spend time living in microgravity .	which two biotechnological tools can be used to assist long-term space travelers ?	which two biotechnological tools can be used to assist long-term space travelers ?
contrary to the sound , the anti-hero is not the villain , not the antagonist . the anti-hero is actually the main character in some contemporary works of literature . guy montag in `` fahrenheit 451 , '' winston smith in `` 1984 , '' who unwittingly ends up challenging those in power -- that is , those who abuse their power to brainwash the populace to believe that the ills of society have been eliminated .	name your favorite characters in literature . are they antiheroes ? explain why or why not .	name your favorite characters in literature . are they antiheroes ? explain why or why not .
so , any air-filled spaces , like a rockfish 's swim bladder , or human lungs , will compress as they descend deeper and expand as they ascend . after a fish bites a fisherman 's hook and is quickly reeled up to the surface , the air in its swim bladder begins to expand . its rapid expansion actually forces the fish 's stomach out of its mouth , while the increased internal pressure pushes its eyes out of their sockets , a condition called exophthalmia .	describe what happens to the rockfish ’ s body when it is quickly reeled to the surface .	describe what happens to the rockfish ’ s body when it is quickly reeled to the surface .
why do grocery stores , auto repair shops and restaurants always seem to exist in groups instead of being spread evenly throughout a community ? while there are several factors that might go into deciding where to place your business , clusters of similar companies can be explained by a very simple story called hotelling 's model of spatial competition . imagine that you sell ice cream at the beach .	if you have no competition , what 's the best place to position your business ?	if you have no competition , what 's the best place to position your business ?
we know that thanks to satellites up in space and sensors on the ground . we can also measure the earth 's lightning density , which is the frequency with which lightning flashes in a square kilometer . knowing where lightning strikes and how often reveals the most lightning-rich places on earth . in the polar regions , there may only be one strike per several square kilometers each year .	lightning causes a number of physical effects that we can experience and use to observe/record that lightning has occurred . which physical effects do you think we can use to monitor lightning and thunderstorms ?	lightning causes a number of physical effects that we can experience and use to observe/record that lightning has occurred . which physical effects do you think we can use to monitor lightning and thunderstorms ?
these early artists mixed minerals , clay , charcoal , and ochre with spit or animal fat to create paint . they drew with their hands and tools , like pads of moss , twigs , bones , and hair . in many instances , their images follow the contours of the cave to create depth and shade .	cave painters commonly drew on cave walls with what tools ?	cave painters commonly drew on cave walls with what tools ?
the third message i would like to share today is , indeed , about revolution : the revolution of tenderness . and what is tenderness ? it is the love that comes close and becomes real .	how does pope francis describe the term ‘ tenderness ’ ?	how does pope francis describe the term ‘ tenderness ’ ?
now as you can imagine , this is not very popular with fourth-graders . ( laughter ) fourth-graders love their dinosaurs , they memorize them . and they 're not happy with this .	what are the three reasons jack horner believes children love dinosaurs ?	what are the three reasons jack horner believes children love dinosaurs ?
with rurik 's son , oleg , expanding his realm into the south , and moving the capitol to kiev , a former outpost of the khazar empire , the kievan rus was born , `` rus '' most likely deriving from an old norse word for `` the men who row . '' the new princedom had complex relations with its neighbors , alternating between alliance and warfare with the khazar and byzantine empires , as well as neighboring tribes . religion played an important role in politics , and as the legend goes , in 987 , the rus prince vladamir i decided it was time to abandon slavic paganism , and sent emissaries to explore neighboring faiths .	what were vladimir 's considerations in choosing a new religion ?	what were vladimir 's considerations in choosing a new religion ?
if all of this sounds like something sloppy that we modern people would never do , then think about something you hear all the time and probably say , `` a whole nother . '' what 's nother ? we have the word another , of course , but it 's composed of an and other , or so we thought .	given how so many words are different now than what they were in earlier english , how do you feel about nother in whole nother ?	given how so many words are different now than what they were in earlier english , how do you feel about nother in whole nother ?
how do we know about atomic structure ? we ca n't see protons , neutrons , or electrons . so , we do a bunch of experiments and develop a model for what we think is there .	can you think of an element that has no neutrons in its nucleus ?	can you think of an element that has no neutrons in its nucleus ?
in both cases , the speaker 's present their audience with a possible future and try to enlist their help in avoiding or achieving it . but what makes for good deliberative rhetoric , besides the future tense ? according to aristotle , there are three persuasive appeals : ethos , logos , and pathos .	to focus on change , you should use future-focused rhetoric . this is called :	to focus on change , you should use future-focused rhetoric . this is called :
in both cases , the speaker 's present their audience with a possible future and try to enlist their help in avoiding or achieving it . but what makes for good deliberative rhetoric , besides the future tense ? according to aristotle , there are three persuasive appeals : ethos , logos , and pathos .	rhetoric , often defined and used negatively , may be used in positive ways . what are some of those ways ? where have you seen positive examples of rhetoric ?	rhetoric , often defined and used negatively , may be used in positive ways . what are some of those ways ? where have you seen positive examples of rhetoric ?
unlike other religions where the higher power is all good , and perhaps has an all-evil rival , taoism teaches that we need to learn from both yin and yang . and unlike religions with gods that are personal , the higher power in taoism is not . taoists believe that living in harmony with the way , a person will not have to fight against the universe 's natural flow .	in daoism , the higher power is not a god , but	in daoism , the higher power is not a god , but
so whatever it is you dream big about , whatever it is you work hard for , do n't let anyone tell you , you 're too young and do n't let anyone tell you no . every life makes history . and every life is a story .	meltzer says , `` all history ever is _________ . ''	meltzer says , `` all history ever is _________ . ''
so whatever it is you dream big about , whatever it is you work hard for , do n't let anyone tell you , you 're too young and do n't let anyone tell you no . every life makes history . and every life is a story .	share about a time in your life when you have changed history .	share about a time in your life when you have changed history .
you concentrate , you put the pencil to paper , you really want to slow down time , you write , `` i shot the ball in the hoop . time slowed down . then we won . ''	what 's an example of how time slowed down in literature ? what do you think made this effective ?	what 's an example of how time slowed down in literature ? what do you think made this effective ?
hardly . nixon 's presidential campaign courted southern voters through fear and resentment of the civil rights movement . '' `` speaking of civil rights , the prosecution may be surprised to learn that he signed the title ix amendment , banning gender-based discrimination in education , and ensured that desegregation of schools occurred peacefully , and he lowered the voting age to 18 , so that students could vote . ''	why was it improper for nixon 's campaign aides to travel to vietnam before the election ?	why was it improper for nixon 's campaign aides to travel to vietnam before the election ?
hardly . nixon 's presidential campaign courted southern voters through fear and resentment of the civil rights movement . '' `` speaking of civil rights , the prosecution may be surprised to learn that he signed the title ix amendment , banning gender-based discrimination in education , and ensured that desegregation of schools occurred peacefully , and he lowered the voting age to 18 , so that students could vote . ''	what was nixon 's relationship to the civil rights movement ?	what was nixon 's relationship to the civil rights movement ?
the ability to use the power of 10 as an estimation tool can come in handy every now and again , like when you 're trying to guess the number of m & amp ; amp ; m 's in a jar , but is also an essential skill in math and science , especially when dealing with what are known as fermi problems . fermi problems are named after the physicist enrico fermi , who 's famous for making rapid order-of-magnitude estimations , or rapid estimations , with seemingly little available data . fermi worked on the manhattan project in developing the atomic bomb , and when it was tested at the trinity site in 1945 , fermi dropped a few pieces of paper during the blast and used the distance they traveled backwards as they fell to estimate the strength of the explosion as 10 kilotons of tnt , which is on the same order of magnitude as the actual value of 20 kilotons . one example of the classic fermi estimation problems is to determine how many piano tuners there are in the city of chicago , illinois .	what did the famous physicist do to estimate the strength of the explosion of an atomic blast ? his estimation experiment was conducted back in 1945 .	what did the famous physicist do to estimate the strength of the explosion of an atomic blast ? his estimation experiment was conducted back in 1945 .
answer in : 3 answer in : 2 answer in : 1 if you feel stuck on a problem like this , try listing all the decisions you can make at each point , and the consequences each choice leads to . for instance , there are five options for who goes across first : one wildebeest , one lion , two wildebeest , two lions , or one of each . if one animal goes alone , it 'll just have to come straight back .	why can ’ t the first move be two wildebeest going across ?	why can ’ t the first move be two wildebeest going across ?
gravity . it controls the universe .	most forces apply only to certain types of particles , and not to others . the electric force , for instance , is only felt by charged particles ( like electrons or protons ) , and is not felt by neutral particles ( like neutrons or neutrinos ) . experiments show that gravity is special : it applies equally to all matter and energy . why is this experimental result crucial to einstein ’ s description of gravity ?	most forces apply only to certain types of particles , and not to others . the electric force , for instance , is only felt by charged particles ( like electrons or protons ) , and is not felt by neutral particles ( like neutrons or neutrinos ) . experiments show that gravity is special : it applies equally to all matter and energy . why is this experimental result crucial to einstein ’ s description of gravity ?
gravity . it controls the universe .	quantum gravity – the union of quantum mechanics and einstein ’ s theory of gravity – has so far proved impossibly hard to construct . if we could work it out , it would be significant because :	quantum gravity – the union of quantum mechanics and einstein ’ s theory of gravity – has so far proved impossibly hard to construct . if we could work it out , it would be significant because :
have you ever heard the term , `` tip of the iceberg '' ? you know that icebergs are mostly underwater , their immense bulk hidden beneath the water .	what does the term “ tip of the iceberg ” refer to ?	what does the term “ tip of the iceberg ” refer to ?
would a different set of assumptions create different feelings , and result in new and better conclusions and actions ? we all have our own unique ladder . be mindful of yours , and help others to see theirs .	why do you suppose that the creator of this concept decided to use a ladder as his visual representation ? what else could be used in place of a ladder ?	why do you suppose that the creator of this concept decided to use a ladder as his visual representation ? what else could be used in place of a ladder ?
nevertheless , the metric system is almost universally used in science and medicine , and it continues to evolve according to its original principles . for a long time , standard units were actually defined by carefully maintained physical prototypes . but thanks to improving technology and precision , these objects with limited access and unreliable longevity are now being replaced with standards based on universal constants , like the speed of light .	what defines our current ‘ standard ’ for one meter ?	what defines our current ‘ standard ’ for one meter ?
when finished with a proof , i like to do what euclid did . he marked the end of a proof with the letters qed . it 's latin for `` quod erat demonstrandum , '' which translates literally to `` what was to be proven . ''	what do the letters q.e.d . signal ?	what do the letters q.e.d . signal ?
stem cell researchers are working hard to find ways in which to use stem cells to create new tissue to replace the parts of organs that are damaged by injury or disease . using stem cells to replace damaged bodily tissue is called regenerative medicine . for example , scientists currently use stem cells to treat patients with blood diseases such as leukemia .	using stem cells to replace damaged bodily tissue is called…	using stem cells to replace damaged bodily tissue is called…
and at 9 a.m. the next day , a message arrived from khrushchev announcing the soviet missiles would be removed from cuba . the crisis was now over . while criticized at the time by their respective governments for bargaining with the enemy , contemporary historical analysis shows great admiration for kennedy 's and khrushchev 's ability to diplomatically solve the crisis .	which government individuals negotiated the end of the crisis on october 27 ?	which government individuals negotiated the end of the crisis on october 27 ?
many religions began as cults , but integrated into the fabric of the larger society as they grew . a modern cult , by contrast , separates its members from others . rather than providing guidelines for members to live better lives , a cult seeks to directly control them , from personal and family relationships , to financial assets and living arrangements .	what are some of the ways by which cult leaders influence their members ?	what are some of the ways by which cult leaders influence their members ?
many religions began as cults , but integrated into the fabric of the larger society as they grew . a modern cult , by contrast , separates its members from others . rather than providing guidelines for members to live better lives , a cult seeks to directly control them , from personal and family relationships , to financial assets and living arrangements .	most cult members are lonely people who get recruited by friendly strangers .	most cult members are lonely people who get recruited by friendly strangers .
a google map demonstrates the relationship between locations in exactly the same fashion a network connects hubs and nodes , using streets as links to connect neighborhoods . the reason a network can expand and evolve so quickly is based upon a mathematical concept called power functions . a power function is a mathematical amplification mechanism , which over specific and very small ranges , accelerates changes logarithmically .	the reason a network can expand and evolve so quickly is based upon a _________ concept called __________ .	the reason a network can expand and evolve so quickly is based upon a _________ concept called __________ .
and the answer is that the cat ca n't see out of that eye because what happens is that the brain goes down a different pathway when it develops and the connections that would ordinarily develop to that eye do n't develop . and that ca n't be undone , that 's a permanent change . so , the brain of that cat is fundamentally different from the brain of a cat that grew up seeing out of that eye .	bones and muscle are n't always static . they change .	bones and muscle are n't always static . they change .
shh ... i 've snuck into minutephysics ' studio to explain how a wing actually works hang on , something does n't feel right .	which of these statements is correct ?	which of these statements is correct ?
her birth revolutionized the field of reproductive medicine . given that approximately one in eight heterosexual couples has difficulty conceiving , and that homosexual couples and single parents often need clinical help to make a baby , the demand for ivf has been growing . ivf is so common , that more than 5 million babies have been born through this technology .	what proportion of heterosexual couples have difficulty conceiving ?	what proportion of heterosexual couples have difficulty conceiving ?
from minstral shows and vaudeville , to night clubs , musical theater , and movie musicals , tap dance has held a featured role . and your approach depends on when in the history 's lineage you decide to connect . the landscape of american entertainment shifted in the 1950s and 60s . big bands became cost-prohibitive , rock and roll was becoming a popular music , and american musical theater moved towards a format incorporating ballet with narrative rather than the extension of variety shows that it had been in the past .	what 's another uniquely `` american '' art form ? briefly explain it 's history .	what 's another uniquely `` american '' art form ? briefly explain it 's history .
so begins wolfgang amadeus mozart 's `` die zauberflöte , '' or `` the magic flute . '' this fantasy singspiel , a type of folk opera with music and dialogue , premiered in 1791 in vienna . though it may seem like a childish fairytale , this intricate opera is full of subversive symbolism , and it 's now regarded as one of the most influential operas in history .	what is a singspiel ?	what is a singspiel ?
this meant that the entire contents of a ship and all of its passengers were often forced to remain on board for five or six weeks before being let ashore . though the drastic measure was only marginally successful , it was n't long before other port cities followed suit . in 1397 , the official period of isolation imposed on ships and crews was set at forty days .	if ship quarantines weren ’ t entirely successful , why do you think they became so common in port cities during the black death ?	if ship quarantines weren ’ t entirely successful , why do you think they became so common in port cities during the black death ?
but until recently , scientists thought cell production came to an abrupt halt soon after this initial growth , leading them to conclude that neurological diseases , like alzheimer 's and parkinson 's , and damaging events , like strokes , are irreversible . but a series of recent discoveries has revealed that adult brains actually do continue to produce new cells in at least three specialized locations . this process , known as neurogenesis , involves dedicated brain cells , called neural stem cells and progenitor cells , which manufacture new neurons or replace the old ones . the three regions where neurogenesis has been discovered are the dentate gyrus , associated with learning and memory , the subventricular zone , which may supply neurons to the olfactory bulb for communication between the nose and brain , and the striatum , which helps manage movement .	which cells in the adult brain produce new neurons ?	which cells in the adult brain produce new neurons ?
she must serve the goddess for at least the next 30 years . for the first ten years of licinia 's service , she 's considered in training , learning how to be a vestal virgin . her most important duty is keeping vigil over the flame of vesta , the virgin goddess of the hearth . vesta does n't have a statue like other roman gods and goddesses .	what is the most important duty of a vestal virgin ?	what is the most important duty of a vestal virgin ?
in these cases , the only way to isolate ingredients is by chemical separation , a complex process that relies on unique interactions between components within a mixture and another material . one of these methods is chromatography , a tool forensic scientists use to examine crime scenes . they dissolve gathered evidence in a gas , and can monitor and analyze the ingredients as they separate and move at varying speeds due to their unique chemical properties .	chromatography works by :	chromatography works by :
i am in the coffee room where element 109 , meitnerium was named . in here , imagine it : 20 people sitting round arguing “ what are we going to call this new element ? ” writing the names on the blackboard…they rubbed it off !	where was the proposed name for element 109 decided after a discussion between 20 scientists ?	where was the proposed name for element 109 decided after a discussion between 20 scientists ?
i am in the coffee room where element 109 , meitnerium was named . in here , imagine it : 20 people sitting round arguing “ what are we going to call this new element ? ” writing the names on the blackboard…they rubbed it off !	to synthesize an atom of meitnerium , lead ( 82 ) is bombarded with cobalt ( 27 ) . what is the other method to produce meitnerium ?	to synthesize an atom of meitnerium , lead ( 82 ) is bombarded with cobalt ( 27 ) . what is the other method to produce meitnerium ?
i am in the coffee room where element 109 , meitnerium was named . in here , imagine it : 20 people sitting round arguing “ what are we going to call this new element ? ” writing the names on the blackboard…they rubbed it off !	after which great scientist was meitnerium named ?	after which great scientist was meitnerium named ?
in up to 11 dimensions , featuring wonders beyond our wildest imagination . and the leading version of string theory predicts a multiverse made of up to 10 to the 500 universes . that 's a one followed by 500 zeroes , a number so vast that if every atom in our observable universe had its own universe and all of the atoms in all of those universes each had their own universe , and you repeated that for two more cycles , you 'd still be at a tiny fraction of the total -- namely , one trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillion trillionth .	some string theorists believe there could be as many as 10^500 universes out there . if it ’ s to be believed , we will have moved from the idea of an earth-centered universe prior to the 16th century , to the notion of a single , sun-centered universe up until the 1920s , now to the multiverse . what ’ s the psychological impact of this progression ? what does it suggest to us about ourselves ?	some string theorists believe there could be as many as 10^500 universes out there . if it ’ s to be believed , we will have moved from the idea of an earth-centered universe prior to the 16th century , to the notion of a single , sun-centered universe up until the 1920s , now to the multiverse . what ’ s the psychological impact of this progression ? what does it suggest to us about ourselves ?
very good . and upon analysis they were really , really surprised to find that there were a number of elements including yttrium which existed at a much much higher abundance on the moon which happens to be the deepest penetration that bowler made . so we are in ytterby in sweden and it ’ s a really nice day and we have come to the ytterby quarry , or ytterby groover , which is actually the birthplace for 4 of the elements and really the one we are going to talk about now is this one right here yttrium . it was first discovered in this quarry from a really horrible black lump of mineral which people thought was coal . and over a period of 40 years from the late 1700s on , some scientists over in arbo did a lot of work in refining this material and they found a new earth or yttria .	in his excursion to ytterby ( sweden ) , the land covered in snow , pete visited a mine where yttrium was discovered , as well as 3 other elements . which of these elements was not discovered in “ the village of the four elements ” ?	in his excursion to ytterby ( sweden ) , the land covered in snow , pete visited a mine where yttrium was discovered , as well as 3 other elements . which of these elements was not discovered in “ the village of the four elements ” ?
but if you repeat those random events many , many , many times , the frequency of a specific outcome , like a player two win , will approach its theoretical probability , that value we got by writing down all the possibilities and counting up the ones for each outcome . so , if you sat on that desert island playing dice forever , player two would eventually win 56 % of the games , and player one would win 44 % . but by then , of course , the banana would be long gone .	now that you learned how to calculate the probabilities of each player win the “ maximum game ” in the video , let 's look at the probabilities of another game . this is how it works : we roll two dice and calculate the multiplication of the two numbers we rolled . -- if it is a multiple of 6 , i win -- if it is not a multiple of 6 , you win . here is an example : if you get 3 and 4 , the multiplication is 12. twelve is a multiple of 6 , so i win ! 1. which player would win if you get 2 and 5 in the dice ? me or you ? 2. which player would win if you get 4 and 2 in the dice ? 3. which player would win if you get 1 and 6 in the dice ?	now that you learned how to calculate the probabilities of each player win the “ maximum game ” in the video , let 's look at the probabilities of another game . this is how it works : we roll two dice and calculate the multiplication of the two numbers we rolled . -- if it is a multiple of 6 , i win -- if it is not a multiple of 6 , you win . here is an example : if you get 3 and 4 , the multiplication is 12. twelve is a multiple of 6 , so i win ! 1. which player would win if you get 2 and 5 in the dice ? me or you ? 2. which player would win if you get 4 and 2 in the dice ? 3. which player would win if you get 1 and 6 in the dice ?
it 's not just in every chemistry lab worldwide , it 's found on t-shirts , coffee mugs , and shower curtains . but the periodic table is n't just another trendy icon . it 's a massive slab of human genius , up there with the taj mahal , the mona lisa , and the ice cream sandwich -- and the table 's creator , dmitri mendeleev , is a bonafide science hall-of-famer .	who is credited with creating the periodic table ?	who is credited with creating the periodic table ?
it 's not just in every chemistry lab worldwide , it 's found on t-shirts , coffee mugs , and shower curtains . but the periodic table is n't just another trendy icon . it 's a massive slab of human genius , up there with the taj mahal , the mona lisa , and the ice cream sandwich -- and the table 's creator , dmitri mendeleev , is a bonafide science hall-of-famer .	lots of scientists had worked on the periodic table other than mendeleev . what do you think would have changed had they all worked closely together to figure out the best way to arrange the periodic table ? do you think collaboration is always the best answer ?	lots of scientists had worked on the periodic table other than mendeleev . what do you think would have changed had they all worked closely together to figure out the best way to arrange the periodic table ? do you think collaboration is always the best answer ?
one of descartes innumerable contributions to the world of numbers was the invention of a simple yet brilliant convention most people take for granted today : the representation of unknowns within an equation as x , y , and z . when the german scientist wilhelm rontgen discovered what we now call x-rays in the late 19th century , he gave them the name x-strahlen . strahlen is german for shine , and x , of course , represented the unknown nature of the radiation rontgen had discovered , the x-factor , so to speak .	who might use the name röntgen radiation instead of x-rays ?	who might use the name röntgen radiation instead of x-rays ?
beta particles are emitted and have enough energy to emerge from the body and be detected . there is a third type of nuclear radiation : gamma , which is not a particle at all . it is an electromagnetic wave , like microwaves , or light , but it is actually 1,000 times more energentic than visible light .	gamma radiation :	gamma radiation :
over time , channels developed between these basins , and water began to flow in an ongoing exchange that persists to this day . in fact , today , the interconnected great lakes contain almost 20 % of the world 's supply of fresh surface water . the water 's journey begins in the far north of lake superior , which is the deepest , coldest , and clearest of the lakes , containing half the system 's water .	how much of earth ’ s available fresh surface water do the great lakes contain ?	how much of earth ’ s available fresh surface water do the great lakes contain ?
it ’ s not really quite so rare . it consists in really quite a high percentage , nearly one percent of the atmosphere . if i look at the one in the middle i can see lots and lots of lines in the blue and the green region and these are all specific to the individual atoms that are in the tubes themselves .	what is the approximate percentage of argon in the atmosphere ?	what is the approximate percentage of argon in the atmosphere ?
so someone born in 1980 would have the sign of yáng metal monkey , while someone born in 2007 would be yīn fire pig . in fact , you can also have an inner animal based on your birth month , a true animal based on your birth date , and a secret animal based on your birth hour . it was the great race that supposedly determined which animals were enshrined in the chinese zodiac , but as the system spread through asia , other cultures made changes to reflect their communities .	which animal is first in the cycle ?	which animal is first in the cycle ?
so someone born in 1980 would have the sign of yáng metal monkey , while someone born in 2007 would be yīn fire pig . in fact , you can also have an inner animal based on your birth month , a true animal based on your birth date , and a secret animal based on your birth hour . it was the great race that supposedly determined which animals were enshrined in the chinese zodiac , but as the system spread through asia , other cultures made changes to reflect their communities .	using the system outlined in the video , determine your animal and your element .	using the system outlined in the video , determine your animal and your element .
no small feat considering he wrote the entire novel while living outside of his native ireland . it 's a testament to joyce 's genius that `` ulysses '' is a difficult book . some people find it impenetrable without a full book of annotations to help them understand what joyce is even talking about . but there 's a lot of joy to be found in reading it , more than just unpacking allusions and solving puzzles .	how could `` ulysses '' have been censored before joyce had even finished writing it ?	how could `` ulysses '' have been censored before joyce had even finished writing it ?
again , osmium has played some role in my life because i did some of the early work in my doctorate involved osmium compound , it was ruthenium and osmium and iron . the ruthenium compound was orange , the osmium compound a rather fetching pale yellow and the iron compound a very dark green . and the osmium compound was perhaps the most boring because it behaved in exactly the way that was predicted .	what was the compound that the professor synthesized , becoming the first scientist to achieve it ?	what was the compound that the professor synthesized , becoming the first scientist to achieve it ?
pattern can be pleasure . in language , rhythm and repetition are often used as the building blocks for poetry . there 's the rhythm of language , created by syllables and their emphasis , such as , `` so long as men can breathe or eyes can see . ''	which of the following is an example of repetition in language ?	which of the following is an example of repetition in language ?
ok. a quick word about maryland . maryland was the second chesapeake colony , founded in 1632 , and by now there was no messing around with joint stock companies . maryland was a proprietorship : a massive land grant to a single individual named cecilius calvert .	what was the second chesapeake colony ?	what was the second chesapeake colony ?
let 's meet the family . technical codes , senior has three sons : symbolic codes , written codes and technical codes , junior . symbolic codes has three sons : symbolic color , symbolic objects and symbolic animals .	technical codes sr. has three sons . which of the following is not one of his sons ?	technical codes sr. has three sons . which of the following is not one of his sons ?
state that a rope stretched across the diagonal of a square produces a square twice as large as the original one . that relationship can be derived from the pythagorean theorem . but how do we know that the theorem is true for every right triangle on a flat surface , not just the ones these mathematicians and surveyors knew about ?	from which culture was the earliest recorded usage of the pythagorean theorem found ?	from which culture was the earliest recorded usage of the pythagorean theorem found ?
state that a rope stretched across the diagonal of a square produces a square twice as large as the original one . that relationship can be derived from the pythagorean theorem . but how do we know that the theorem is true for every right triangle on a flat surface , not just the ones these mathematicians and surveyors knew about ?	how were the principles of the pythagorean theorem important to various ancient cultures around the world ?	how were the principles of the pythagorean theorem important to various ancient cultures around the world ?
state that a rope stretched across the diagonal of a square produces a square twice as large as the original one . that relationship can be derived from the pythagorean theorem . but how do we know that the theorem is true for every right triangle on a flat surface , not just the ones these mathematicians and surveyors knew about ?	what are some practical applications of the pythagorean theorem that impact our modern society ?	what are some practical applications of the pythagorean theorem that impact our modern society ?
state that a rope stretched across the diagonal of a square produces a square twice as large as the original one . that relationship can be derived from the pythagorean theorem . but how do we know that the theorem is true for every right triangle on a flat surface , not just the ones these mathematicians and surveyors knew about ?	are there any types of surfaces for which the pythagorean theorem would not be valid ? if so , which ones ?	are there any types of surfaces for which the pythagorean theorem would not be valid ? if so , which ones ?
and instead of giving up , he decided to prove it could n't be done . hippasus began by assuming that the pythagorean worldview was true , that root 2 could be expressed as a ratio of two integers . he labeled these hypothetical integers p and q .	which of the following statements is true ?	which of the following statements is true ?
well , wouldn ’ t that be nice ? so what will actually happen to the universe in the end ? at the moment , heat death seems the most likely , but we at kurzgesagt hope that this “ dead forever ” stuff is wrong and the universe will start over and over again .	which is the most promising end of the universe scenario ?	which is the most promising end of the universe scenario ?
and yet , his careful engineering worked . striking clocks had already been around for hundreds of years , but banneker 's may have been the first created in america , and it drew fascinated visitors from across the country . in a show of his brilliance , the clock continued to chime for the rest of banneker 's life . born in 1731 to freed slaves on a farm in baltimore , maryland , from his earliest days , the young banneker was obsessed with math and science .	benjamin banneker created his striking clock from _________ .	benjamin banneker created his striking clock from _________ .
the distinction between venom and poison is purely in the method of delivery . poison has to be inhaled , ingested , or absorbed . venom has to be injected into a wound .	which has to be inhaled , ingested , or absorbed ?	which has to be inhaled , ingested , or absorbed ?
their dna has a circular structure that is strikingly similar to the dna of the ancient bacteria , and it also contains many similar genes . the ribosomes , or protein assembly machines of chloroplasts and mitochondria , also have the same structure as ribosomes of ancient bacteria , but are different from the ribosomes hanging around the rest of eukaryotic cell . lastly , think about the membranes involved in the engulfing process .	how does the presence of different types of ribosomes inside a eukaryotic cell strengthen the endosymbiotic theory ?	how does the presence of different types of ribosomes inside a eukaryotic cell strengthen the endosymbiotic theory ?
[ welcome to canada ] [ over 4.8 million syrians are refugees living in neighboring countries . ] [ 6.5 million more are displaced within syria . ] [ in november 2015 , the government of canada promised ] [ to resettle 25,000 syrian refugees within 6 months . ]	approximately how many syrians are displaced within syria ?	approximately how many syrians are displaced within syria ?
your personal gas will vary based on what you eat , and what bacteria are in your gut . for example , from the same starting sugar , the bacteria clostridium produces carbon dioxide , butyrate and hydrogen , while propionibacterium can produce carbon dioxide , propionate and acetate . at the same time , methanogens can use hydrogen and carbon dioxide produced by other bacteria to generate methane , which can reduce the total volume of gas by using up hydrogen and carbon dioxide . so there 's a complex web among intestinal bacteria allowing them to flourish by either directly consuming undigested food , or using what other bacteria produce .	methanogens use carbon dioxide and hydrogen produced by other bacteria to produce methane . as a result :	methanogens use carbon dioxide and hydrogen produced by other bacteria to produce methane . as a result :
here 's his first follower with a crucial role ; he 's going to show everyone else how to follow . now , notice that the leader embraces him as an equal . now it 's not about the leader anymore ; it 's about them , plural .	what does a leader need to have ?	what does a leader need to have ?
used in construction , it ’ s used in high-performance components of cars . when i was a child when we got , had indigestion , we were given ‘ milk of magnesia ’ . magnesium oxide in water which came in these really nice blue bottles , sort of white looking liquid , didn ’ t taste very nice , but it was meant to be good for you , i am not sure if it was .	what was the composition of “ milk of magnesia ” that was given to the professor as a child when he had indigestion ?	what was the composition of “ milk of magnesia ” that was given to the professor as a child when he had indigestion ?
enter atomic clocks , some of which are so precise that they would not gain or lose a second even if they ran for the next 300 million years . atomic clocks work because of quantum physics . all clocks must have a constant frequency .	gps atomic clocks operate on which quantum mechanical mechanism ?	gps atomic clocks operate on which quantum mechanical mechanism ?
enter atomic clocks , some of which are so precise that they would not gain or lose a second even if they ran for the next 300 million years . atomic clocks work because of quantum physics . all clocks must have a constant frequency .	how do scientists build atomic clocks in a laboratory ?	how do scientists build atomic clocks in a laboratory ?
enter atomic clocks , some of which are so precise that they would not gain or lose a second even if they ran for the next 300 million years . atomic clocks work because of quantum physics . all clocks must have a constant frequency .	why are the elements cesium and rubidium used in many atomic clocks ?	why are the elements cesium and rubidium used in many atomic clocks ?
but if a small-feathered dinosaur flapped its arms as it ran up an incline , its feathers would have provided extra lift to help it run faster . this accident of physics might have led to the evolution of longer dinosaur arms , which would let them run faster and even leap short distances through the air . eventually , their arms stretched out into wings .	what does zimmer mean by accident of physics ?	what does zimmer mean by accident of physics ?
not all diet crazes tout weight loss . what about claims of superfoods , cleanses , and other body-boosting solutions ? marketing emphasizes the allure of products associated with ancient and remote cultures to create a sense of mysticism for consumers . while so-called superfoods , like blueberries or açaí , do add a powerful punch of nutrients , their super transformative qualities are largely exaggeration .	why might marketers emphasize the association between superfoods and ancient cultures ?	why might marketers emphasize the association between superfoods and ancient cultures ?
wild fish simply ca n't reproduce as fast as 7 billion people can eat them . fishing also has impacts on broader ecosystems . wild shrimp are typically caught by dragging nets the size of a football field along the ocean bottom , disrupting or destroying seafloor habitats .	what types of technology are used for fishing ?	what types of technology are used for fishing ?
people get about half of their added sugars from those drinks and treats , so it might seem like sugar is hiding in plain sight , but like someone in the witness protection program , the other half is hidden in places you 'd least suspect . check the ingredients on ketchup , bologna , spaghetti sauce , soy milk , sports drinks , fish sticks , and peanut butter . you 'll find sugar hiding in most of those products .	which has more calories and which is better for you ? an 8 ounce glass of whole milk ? or an 8 ounce glass of 1 % chocolate milk ?	which has more calories and which is better for you ? an 8 ounce glass of whole milk ? or an 8 ounce glass of 1 % chocolate milk ?
but scientists developed theoretical models to tell them what to look for . for the higgs , they thought it would sometimes decay into two photons . so they first examined only the high-energy events that included two photons .	the higgs boson was discovered by detecting its decay into :	the higgs boson was discovered by detecting its decay into :
and it is this very process that makes tattoos permanent . first , specialized cells called macrophages eat the invading material in an attempt to clean up the inflammatory mess . as these cells travel through the lymphatic system , some of them are carried back with a belly full of dye into the lymph nodes while others remain in the dermis . with no way to dispose of the pigment , the dyes inside them remain visible through the skin .	macrophages are immune cells that are also part of the lymphatic system . describe the components of lymphatic system and why it ’ s important for immunity .	macrophages are immune cells that are also part of the lymphatic system . describe the components of lymphatic system and why it ’ s important for immunity .
on a large scale , this results in elaborate rhythms of internally generated brain activity , humming quietly in the background whether we 're awake , asleep , or trying not to think about anything at all . and these spontaneously occurring brain functions form the foundation upon which all other brain functions rely . the most crucial of these automatically occurring activities are the ones that keep us alive .	fast-forward a few hundred years into the future , where you are a student in a neuroscience lab . your research project is to make a conscious , fully aware robot that is as intelligent and flexible as a human ( or better ) . in the design of your robot , would you include spontaneous , automatic functions that the “ conscious ” part of the robot couldn ’ t control ? what sorts of automatic functions would you include ?	fast-forward a few hundred years into the future , where you are a student in a neuroscience lab . your research project is to make a conscious , fully aware robot that is as intelligent and flexible as a human ( or better ) . in the design of your robot , would you include spontaneous , automatic functions that the “ conscious ” part of the robot couldn ’ t control ? what sorts of automatic functions would you include ?
on a large scale , this results in elaborate rhythms of internally generated brain activity , humming quietly in the background whether we 're awake , asleep , or trying not to think about anything at all . and these spontaneously occurring brain functions form the foundation upon which all other brain functions rely . the most crucial of these automatically occurring activities are the ones that keep us alive .	an odd feature of the human sensory systems is that they often have to create or interpret the sensory signals picked up by our eyes , ears , and other sensory organs . for example , our visual system spontaneously “ fills in ” the two gaping holes in our visual field created by the optic nerve punching through the retina to make it ’ s way to the brain . do you think that our memory systems also spontaneously fill in missing information ? have you ever remembered being somewhere with someone , but later realized you were totally wrong and you were actually with someone else ? if this has happened to you , why do you think your brain spontaneously filled in this information ? why not just leave that part of the memory blank ?	an odd feature of the human sensory systems is that they often have to create or interpret the sensory signals picked up by our eyes , ears , and other sensory organs . for example , our visual system spontaneously “ fills in ” the two gaping holes in our visual field created by the optic nerve punching through the retina to make it ’ s way to the brain . do you think that our memory systems also spontaneously fill in missing information ? have you ever remembered being somewhere with someone , but later realized you were totally wrong and you were actually with someone else ? if this has happened to you , why do you think your brain spontaneously filled in this information ? why not just leave that part of the memory blank ?
not only did this allow torricelli to make the instrument much more compact , it supported his idea that weight was the deciding factor . a variation on the experiment used two tubes with one having a large bubble at the top . if galileo 's interpretation had been correct , the bigger vacuum in the second tube should have exerted more suction and lifted the mercury higher .	what are other inventions that you foresee becoming obsolete or outlawed due to new technology or the material used in their construction ?	what are other inventions that you foresee becoming obsolete or outlawed due to new technology or the material used in their construction ?
this is the reconstructed ancestor of the indo-european family that includes nearly all languages historically spoken in europe , as well as large parts of southern and western asia . and though it requires a bit more work , we can find the same systematic similarities , or correspondences , between related words in different indo-european branches . comparing english with latin , we see that english has `` t '' where latin has `` d '' , and `` f '' where latin has `` p '' at the start of words . some of english 's more distant relatives include hindi , persian and the celtic languages it displaced in what is now britain .	we talked about several similarities between english and german . can you find others by looking at a dictionary of german and comparing the words to their english translations ?	we talked about several similarities between english and german . can you find others by looking at a dictionary of german and comparing the words to their english translations ?
say , for example , in our cellular kitchen , that someone wanted to cancel their order or decided they wanted chips instead of fries . that 's where rnai comes in . thankfully , your cells have the perfect knives for just this kind of job .	rnai could be used to :	rnai could be used to :
i went to a girls ’ school that really didn ’ t have a strong science program at all when i was there . at the time it was a classic school for girls , with a good tennis team and a good english teacher and essentially no math past eleventh grade and no physics and no chemistry . - [ gloria ] i ’ m curious about the reception that you got inside nasa .	sally ride went to what she called a `` classic school for girls '' with `` a good tennis team , a good english teacher and essentially no math past eleventh grade , and no physics , and no chemistry . '' the attitude of her school was similar to what other institution mentioned in this video ?	sally ride went to what she called a `` classic school for girls '' with `` a good tennis team , a good english teacher and essentially no math past eleventh grade , and no physics , and no chemistry . '' the attitude of her school was similar to what other institution mentioned in this video ?
and though women do strive to work in stem fields studies show they face barriers . in a double blind study science faculty from research universities rated applications for a lab manager position . what they did n't know is that the applications were randomly assigned either male or female names .	what happened when science faculty from research university rated applications from female applicants vs. male applicants ?	what happened when science faculty from research university rated applications from female applicants vs. male applicants ?
scientists are currently monitoring the world 's active volcanoes , and procedures for predicting eruptions , conducting evacuations and diverting lava flows have improved over the years . but the massive scale and global reach of a supervolcano means that for many people there would be nowhere to run . fortunately , the current data shows no evidence of such an eruption occurring in the next few thousand years .	which famous usa landmark sits atop a supervolcano ?	which famous usa landmark sits atop a supervolcano ?
scientists are currently monitoring the world 's active volcanoes , and procedures for predicting eruptions , conducting evacuations and diverting lava flows have improved over the years . but the massive scale and global reach of a supervolcano means that for many people there would be nowhere to run . fortunately , the current data shows no evidence of such an eruption occurring in the next few thousand years .	which of the following strategies would avoid all of the devastating effects of a supervolcano ?	which of the following strategies would avoid all of the devastating effects of a supervolcano ?
so let ’ s go along here . lawrence was famous for inventing an instrument called the cyclotron which was for accelerating electrons to very high speeds . it was in fact the precursor of the large hadron collider which everybody ’ s now talking about .	lawrencium is named after ernest lawrence . what is the name of the instrument lawrence invented in 1929 that is used to accelerate electrons ?	lawrencium is named after ernest lawrence . what is the name of the instrument lawrence invented in 1929 that is used to accelerate electrons ?
she asked if she could listen to what she called my `` tribal music , '' and was consequently very disappointed when i produced my tape of mariah carey . ( laughter ) she assumed that i did not know how to use a stove . what struck me was this : she had felt sorry for me even before she saw me .	using the resource in `` dig deeper '' , identify three examples of rhetorical devices she employs in her talk . ( hint : use the interactive transcript to see the text . )	using the resource in `` dig deeper '' , identify three examples of rhetorical devices she employs in her talk . ( hint : use the interactive transcript to see the text . )
ever since pool or billiards has existed , mathematicians and physicists have had these thought experiments about mathematical pool and mathematical billiards . because it 's great for working out how a particle , or in this case , a pool ball , will rebound against the sides , and where it will go .	why do mathematicians and physicists use pool tables for thought experiments ?	why do mathematicians and physicists use pool tables for thought experiments ?
certain pronouns already have possession built in and do n't need an apostrophe . remembering that will help you avoid one of the trickiest snags in english grammar : its vs. it 's . `` it 's '' only take an apostrophe when it 's a contraction for `` it is '' or `` it has . ''	one of the trickiest snags in english grammar is `` its '' versus `` it 's '' . which of the following statements is true about this conundrum ?	one of the trickiest snags in english grammar is `` its '' versus `` it 's '' . which of the following statements is true about this conundrum ?
certain pronouns already have possession built in and do n't need an apostrophe . remembering that will help you avoid one of the trickiest snags in english grammar : its vs. it 's . `` it 's '' only take an apostrophe when it 's a contraction for `` it is '' or `` it has . ''	as the english language evolves , so do english grammar `` rules '' and `` style '' choices . why ?	as the english language evolves , so do english grammar `` rules '' and `` style '' choices . why ?
this has resulted in many vaccines , which each work uniquely , separated into many different types . first , we have live attenuated vaccines . these are made of the pathogen itself but a much weaker and tamer version .	what is the main advantage of live attenuated vaccine ?	what is the main advantage of live attenuated vaccine ?
but what if there 's more to life than just pleasure ? that 's what nozick believed he was demonstrating through his experience machine thought experiment . despite the machine 's promise of maximum net pleasure , he still found reason not to plug in , as do many other experimenters who consider the proposition .	what are some potential flaws in the design of nozick 's thought experiment ? how do they affect the strength of his argument ?	what are some potential flaws in the design of nozick 's thought experiment ? how do they affect the strength of his argument ?
those are some pretty tough constraints , and we may not have the technology for it now . but in the process of trying to meet these objectives , we might discover other applications of any inventions that result . building an innovative water filtration system could provide a solution for farmers working in drought-stricken regions , or a way to clean municipal water in polluted cities .	all of the following inventions were discovered accidentally except :	all of the following inventions were discovered accidentally except :
but sometimes , even other species can benefit . tomato and tobacco plants can both decipher sagebrush warning signals . plants do n't have to rely solely on those airborne broadcasts .	how can researchers tell that sagebrush plants have received information from neighbors ?	how can researchers tell that sagebrush plants have received information from neighbors ?
now , we 'll go further and unmix things chemically by breaking some bonds . many larger , complex molecules are just a bunch of smaller molecules bonded together like building blocks . here , again , macaroni salad provides a nice example .	many larger complex molecules are just ________ .	many larger complex molecules are just ________ .
but people , like you and me , can be our own d.p.i . agents to fight plagiarism and uphold the values of original thinking . we know that the best defense against plagiarism consists of writers who save themselves time , worry , and effort by taking the far easier road of just doing the work themselves .	renee , the daughter of a u.s. dpi secret agent , procrastinated all semester and started her creative writing project the night before . renee looked up a random poet online and copied and pasted her poems into her project , claiming them as her own original poems . renee engaged in the most egregious form of plagiarism , according to the dpi .	renee , the daughter of a u.s. dpi secret agent , procrastinated all semester and started her creative writing project the night before . renee looked up a random poet online and copied and pasted her poems into her project , claiming them as her own original poems . renee engaged in the most egregious form of plagiarism , according to the dpi .
approximately 7 million people around the world die from heart attacks every year , and cardiovascular disease , which causes heart attacks and other problems like strokes , is the world 's leading killer . so what causes a heart attack ? like all muscles , the heart needs oxygen , and during a heart attack , it ca n't get enough .	what is the commonest symptom that heralds the onset of a heart attack ?	what is the commonest symptom that heralds the onset of a heart attack ?
upon further research , scientists tend to favor the theory that can explain most of the data , though there may still be gaps in our understanding . scientists also like when a new theory successfully predicts previously unobserved phenomena , like when dmitri mendeleev 's theory about the periodic table predicted several undiscovered elements . the term scientific theory covers a broad swath .	what made mendeleev 's theory about the organization of matter in the periodic table so powerful ?	what made mendeleev 's theory about the organization of matter in the periodic table so powerful ?
when the french-speaking normans conquered england and became its ruling class , they brought their speech with them , adding a massive amount of french and latin vocabulary to the english language previously spoken there . today , we call that language old english . this is the language of beowulf . it probably does n't look very familiar , but it might be more recognizable if you know some german .	there are about 7000 languages in the world . what is the main ( or traditional ) language of the area you come from ? which family does it belong to ?	there are about 7000 languages in the world . what is the main ( or traditional ) language of the area you come from ? which family does it belong to ?
some of the organic molecules in organisms are small and simple , having only one of a few functional groups . others , especially those that play structural roles or store genetic information , are macromolecules . in many cases , these macromolecules are polymers . for example , complex carbohydrates are polymers of simple sugars , proteins are polymers of amino acids , and nucleic acids , dna and rna , which contain our genetic information , are polymers of nucleotides . trees and plants are made of the polymer cellulose .	there are four basic kinds of biological macromolecules . they are carbohydrates , lipids , ____________ and nucleic acids .	there are four basic kinds of biological macromolecules . they are carbohydrates , lipids , ____________ and nucleic acids .
during world war ii , both the nazi party and resistance groups covered walls with propaganda . and the berlin wall 's one-sided graffiti can be seen as a striking symbol of repression versus relatively unrestricted public access . as the counterculture movements associated with graffiti become mainstream , does graffiti , too , become accepted ?	the berlin wall is a one-sided example of graffiti because :	the berlin wall is a one-sided example of graffiti because :
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar mysteries of vernacular tuxedo : men 's evening wear for semi-formal occasions . tuxedo , surprisingly , has its roots in native american history . the delaware indians of what is now the northeast united states , were divided into three subgroups , distinguished by their animal totems : the turkey , the turtle , and the wolf .	what are some other modern words that have their roots in native american history ?	what are some other modern words that have their roots in native american history ?
remember , it 's not the fall that kills her , but the sudden stop at the bottom . let 's say she 's falling from a 32 story building , about 300 feet , and you are 6 feet tall , maybe 10 feet on your tippy-toes , with your arms above your head holding a door , in hopes of distributing the pressure across a larger surface area , but all you 're doing is essentially moving the ground up by 10 feet . so , she 's now falling from 290 feet , instead of 300 feet , reaching the speed of 173 feet per second just before impact , not counting air resistance .	if a superhero catches a girl falling from a 30-story building , what scenario would most likely take place ?	if a superhero catches a girl falling from a 30-story building , what scenario would most likely take place ?
the beat is built into the very fabric of our being . simply put , we 're creatures of rhythm and repetition . it 's central to our experience , rhythm and repetition , rhythm and repetition . on , and in , and on , and out .	we are creatures of repetition within our own bodies . which bodily functions involve rhythm and repetition ?	we are creatures of repetition within our own bodies . which bodily functions involve rhythm and repetition ?
the beat is built into the very fabric of our being . simply put , we 're creatures of rhythm and repetition . it 's central to our experience , rhythm and repetition , rhythm and repetition . on , and in , and on , and out .	have you noticed some lines/lyrics are more fun to sing along with than others ? does repetition of sound appear more or less in those lines/lyrics ? if so , which kinds of repetition do they use ?	have you noticed some lines/lyrics are more fun to sing along with than others ? does repetition of sound appear more or less in those lines/lyrics ? if so , which kinds of repetition do they use ?
the beat is built into the very fabric of our being . simply put , we 're creatures of rhythm and repetition . it 's central to our experience , rhythm and repetition , rhythm and repetition . on , and in , and on , and out .	can you find a visual representation of repetition in your world ? maybe repeated rows of desks ? or roads lined with trees ? how might you capture that repetition in language , so someone might visualize the patterns without physically seeing them ?	can you find a visual representation of repetition in your world ? maybe repeated rows of desks ? or roads lined with trees ? how might you capture that repetition in language , so someone might visualize the patterns without physically seeing them ?
and , hence , how much have clouds changed due to human activities ? that knowledge will help sharpen climate projections in the 21st century . and secondly , could the puzzling observations of solar climate variability in the pre-industrial climate be explained by an influence of galactic cosmic rays on clouds ? ambitious but realistic goals when your head 's in the clouds .	climate models are computer simulations of all the complex interactions of the atmosphere , oceans , land surface , ice and biosphere . they account for the incoming radiation from the sun and the radiation emitted back out to space . to be able to provide reliable climate simulations and predictions , climate models must be based on the laws of physics and chemistry .	climate models are computer simulations of all the complex interactions of the atmosphere , oceans , land surface , ice and biosphere . they account for the incoming radiation from the sun and the radiation emitted back out to space . to be able to provide reliable climate simulations and predictions , climate models must be based on the laws of physics and chemistry .
dr. fry : well , so this is a thing that you can exploit , essentially so if you know -- so this gives us , i suppose , two strategies that we can use so the first tip is that if you lose , that means the other person just won , right ? so let 's imagine that your opponent won by playing rock now , the chances are that they 're going to play rock again , you should then play paper so you just lost on scissors , so you should play paper which means that , basically , even though paper beats rock ( so the cycle goes around like this : paper beats rock and so on ) you should go the other way around the triangle let 's imagine that you played scissors , the other person played rock , what you should do is you should go backwards around this triangle and play paper the next time because of the high chance that they 're going to play rock again so that 's the first thing : go backwards , i guess or another way to say it is -- essentially , you 've just played scissors , they 've played rock so play the thing that did n't come up in that , if you lose now the second thing , is that if you 've just won now , they 're going to expect you to play the same thing again , right ? which means , that they 're going to play the thing that you would beat the thing that you just played so you need to play the thing that would beat that would beat the thing that you just played which is equivalent to saying , you need to play what they just played you want to [ laughs ] let 's go again [ both laugh ] brady : i like the easy way better , so you should play what they just played dr. fry : you should play what they just played , yes so let 's imagine , then , you just won -- you played rock , right ?	according to this strategy , if you lose your first hand to someone who played rock , what should you play in your second hand ?	according to this strategy , if you lose your first hand to someone who played rock , what should you play in your second hand ?
but it 's not . all detritus is ultimately consumed by microbes and other scavengers , so it actually forms the base of the brown food chain that supports many other organisms , including us . scientists are learning that this detritus is an unexpectedly huge energy source , fueling most natural ecosystems . but the interactions within an ecosystem are even more complex than that .	detritus is defined as ________ .	detritus is defined as ________ .
but it 's not . all detritus is ultimately consumed by microbes and other scavengers , so it actually forms the base of the brown food chain that supports many other organisms , including us . scientists are learning that this detritus is an unexpectedly huge energy source , fueling most natural ecosystems . but the interactions within an ecosystem are even more complex than that .	where do you think you would see more consumers of detritus , on land or in the water ? why ?	where do you think you would see more consumers of detritus , on land or in the water ? why ?
the positions of these symbols indicate different powers of ten , starting on the right and increasing as we move left . for example , the number 316 reads as 6x10^0 plus 1x10^1 plus 3x10^2 . a key breakthrough of this system , which was also independently developed by the mayans , was the number zero . older positional notation systems that lacked this symbol would leave a blank in its place , making it hard to distinguish between 63 and 603 , or 12 and 120 .	the number zero is such a fascinating number that many books have been written about it . briefly explain why it was such an important breakthrough for the number system we use today .	the number zero is such a fascinating number that many books have been written about it . briefly explain why it was such an important breakthrough for the number system we use today .
that means that the connections between brain cells start to wither . in adults , having poor connections between your neurons is harmful enough . but in children , with their fast growing brains , it ’ s especially dangerous—not to mention that the amount of lead needed to cause brain damage in kids is much smaller , in part because their brains are making ( and removing ) new connections at much faster rates .	what mineral is needed to facilitate communication between neurons ?	what mineral is needed to facilitate communication between neurons ?
this bilayer , which at body temperature has the consistency of vegetable oil , is studded with other types of molecules , including proteins , carbohydrates , and cholesterol . cholesterol keeps the membrane at the right fluidity . it also helps regulate communication between cells .	which of the following is not a characteristic of the plasma membrane ?	which of the following is not a characteristic of the plasma membrane ?
( laughs ) sal : a lot of it is , if he did it 50 years earlier , people would have thought this guy 's a quack and if he did it now they 'd think he was just derivative and ... it was really just that time where people happened to think this was art . steven : i think that that 's right .	do you think that replicated images of brand-name products ( which you can buy in your grocery store ) can be considered advertising or art ?	do you think that replicated images of brand-name products ( which you can buy in your grocery store ) can be considered advertising or art ?
( laughs ) sal : a lot of it is , if he did it 50 years earlier , people would have thought this guy 's a quack and if he did it now they 'd think he was just derivative and ... it was really just that time where people happened to think this was art . steven : i think that that 's right .	how does the time when the art piece was created impact the meaning behind the image and significance of the work ?	how does the time when the art piece was created impact the meaning behind the image and significance of the work ?
dogs yawned more frequently at familiar yawns , such as from their owners , than at unfamiliar yawns from strangers . following this research , other studies on humans and primates have also shown that contagious yawning occurs more frequently among friends than strangers . in fact , contagious yawning starts occurring when we are about four or five years old , at the point when children develop the ability to identify others ' emotions properly .	why do you think we ( humans ) start yawning contagiously when we are entering kindergarten , at about 4 or 5 years of age ?	why do you think we ( humans ) start yawning contagiously when we are entering kindergarten , at about 4 or 5 years of age ?
well , not exactly ! this process still required a whole dark room at the location of the photograph , which was a big hassle . picture the early photographers lugging enormous trailers with all their equipment wherever they wanted to take a picture .	describe your favorite photograph , and explain why it 's so memorable to you .	describe your favorite photograph , and explain why it 's so memorable to you .
now , boyle 's gas law states that the volume of a gas is inversely related to pressure . so , any air-filled spaces , like a rockfish 's swim bladder , or human lungs , will compress as they descend deeper and expand as they ascend . after a fish bites a fisherman 's hook and is quickly reeled up to the surface , the air in its swim bladder begins to expand . its rapid expansion actually forces the fish 's stomach out of its mouth , while the increased internal pressure pushes its eyes out of their sockets , a condition called exophthalmia . sometimes rockfish eyes will even have a crystallized appearance from corneal emphysemas , little gas bubbles that build up inside the cornea .	what is the name of the air-filled organ that has the most potential to cause bodily harm due to rapid expansion when a rockfish is reeled to the surface ?	what is the name of the air-filled organ that has the most potential to cause bodily harm due to rapid expansion when a rockfish is reeled to the surface ?
coming together to form proteins according to the instructs encoded in dna , these are the main active components in all living cells , from bacteria to blue whales . if comets are where these building blocks of life were first formed , then they are the ultimate source of life on earth , and , perhaps , some of the other places they visited as well . we know that planets orbit nearly every star in the night sky , with one in five having a planet similar to earth in size and temperature . if earth-like planets and the molecules found in dna are not anomalies , we may be only one example of what 's possible when a planet under the right conditions is seeded with organic molecules by a passing comet .	for the first time in history earth-like planets are known to orbit one of every five stars in the galaxy . organic molecules are sprinkled throughout solar systems in comets and asteroids . given these new discoveries , do you think life exists on other planets ?	for the first time in history earth-like planets are known to orbit one of every five stars in the galaxy . organic molecules are sprinkled throughout solar systems in comets and asteroids . given these new discoveries , do you think life exists on other planets ?
the plan is to test drop them to find the highest floor at which an egg will survive the fall without breaking . of course , the experiment can only be repeated until both replica eggs are smashed . and throwing souvenirs out the window too many times is probably going to draw the guards ' attention .	why are two eggs needed for the experiment ?	why are two eggs needed for the experiment ?
the plan is to test drop them to find the highest floor at which an egg will survive the fall without breaking . of course , the experiment can only be repeated until both replica eggs are smashed . and throwing souvenirs out the window too many times is probably going to draw the guards ' attention .	what kind of search does this problem reduce to if the number of eggs is infinite ?	what kind of search does this problem reduce to if the number of eggs is infinite ?
so , how to break this cycle ? the best solution would be to take plastics out of the equation altogether . that 'll take a lot of time but requires only small collective changes , like more recycling , replacing plastics with paper and glass , and ditching that toothpaste with the microbeads .	commonly , the best answer to removing plastics from the ocean is to reduce , reuse or recycle . give specific examples ( one for each of the 3 r ’ s ) of what you could change in your own life to help reduce plastics .	commonly , the best answer to removing plastics from the ocean is to reduce , reuse or recycle . give specific examples ( one for each of the 3 r ’ s ) of what you could change in your own life to help reduce plastics .
tempers flared and a fight almost broke out until their father stepped in . the brothers managed to make peace and saburo and shiro joined harry and ken in california , and later fought for the us army in korea . it took until 1988 for the us government to acknowledge the injustice of its internment camps and approve reparations payments to survivors .	soon after the war ended , harry and ken were reunited with their father and younger brothers , saburo and shiro . saburo and shiro had fought for the imperial japanese navy during the war and when they found out harry and ken had fought for the u.s. army , they were angry and wanted to fight . their father sternly stopped the arguing and reminded the four brothers that the war was over . give reasons why you think saburo and shiro got so angry at harry and ken for fighting for the united states .	soon after the war ended , harry and ken were reunited with their father and younger brothers , saburo and shiro . saburo and shiro had fought for the imperial japanese navy during the war and when they found out harry and ken had fought for the u.s. army , they were angry and wanted to fight . their father sternly stopped the arguing and reminded the four brothers that the war was over . give reasons why you think saburo and shiro got so angry at harry and ken for fighting for the united states .
`` why ? '' `` it looks more like the circle than the others . '' `` but how do we know for sure ? ''	as you discovered in problem 6 , if you keep the perimeter the same , you will increase the area of regular polygons as you add more sides . using this understanding , explain why it makes sense that a circle maximizes the area for any given perimeter .	as you discovered in problem 6 , if you keep the perimeter the same , you will increase the area of regular polygons as you add more sides . using this understanding , explain why it makes sense that a circle maximizes the area for any given perimeter .
best wishes , john green . so what happened to these people ? well , here ’ s what didn ’ t happen to them .	except for the coast , there are only a few narrow passes through the mountains , such as the khyber pass , that have allowed people to enter this land . in which mountain range was this pass located ?	except for the coast , there are only a few narrow passes through the mountains , such as the khyber pass , that have allowed people to enter this land . in which mountain range was this pass located ?
like many six year olds with a macgyver mullet i learned how to ride a bike when i was really young . i had learned a life skill and i was really proud of it . everything changed though when my friend barney called me 25 years later .	what other example of a learned skill that requires neuroplasticity does destin give ?	what other example of a learned skill that requires neuroplasticity does destin give ?
the desire to please the gods was so great that the ancient greeks traditionally welcomed all strangers into their homes with generosity for fear that the strangers might be gods in disguise . this ancient code of hospitality was called xenia . it involved hosts providing their guests with safety , food , and comfort , and the guests returning the favor with courtesy and gifts if they had them .	what is xenia ?	what is xenia ?
the desire to please the gods was so great that the ancient greeks traditionally welcomed all strangers into their homes with generosity for fear that the strangers might be gods in disguise . this ancient code of hospitality was called xenia . it involved hosts providing their guests with safety , food , and comfort , and the guests returning the favor with courtesy and gifts if they had them .	in addition to the ancient greeks , the ancient romans also had a code of hospitality like xenia , called hospitium . what do you think were some of the challenges of such a code , and do you think a code like this would benefit our society today ?	in addition to the ancient greeks , the ancient romans also had a code of hospitality like xenia , called hospitium . what do you think were some of the challenges of such a code , and do you think a code like this would benefit our society today ?
so holmium : holmium is a very interesting element because it has the highest magnetic moment of any known element in the periodic table , which is very high . this is basically the strength of the magnetic field which it ’ s producing , so it ’ s got lots of uses in magnetic materials for electronics for example .	as steve explained , what is significant about holmium regarding its magnetic moment ?	as steve explained , what is significant about holmium regarding its magnetic moment ?
so holmium : holmium is a very interesting element because it has the highest magnetic moment of any known element in the periodic table , which is very high . this is basically the strength of the magnetic field which it ’ s producing , so it ’ s got lots of uses in magnetic materials for electronics for example .	which city ’ s latin name gave its name to holmium ?	which city ’ s latin name gave its name to holmium ?
a bone of contention arose between them . as for the last part of the cell theory -- that cells come from preexisting cells -- schleiden did n't exactly subscribe to that thought , as he swore cells came from free-cell formation , where they just kind of spontaneously crystallized into existence . that 's when another scientist named rudolph virchow , stepped in with research showing that cells did come from other cells , research that was actually -- hmm ... how to put it ?	can you describe a time when collaboration worked well for you ? where there ever any disagreements that led to a false assumption ( like cells spontaneously crystalizing into existence ) ?	can you describe a time when collaboration worked well for you ? where there ever any disagreements that led to a false assumption ( like cells spontaneously crystalizing into existence ) ?
and they leave the atmosphere when they 're used by plants during photosynthesis , absorbed back into the ocean , or stored in soil and sediment . this game of tetris is called the carbon cycle , and it 's the engine of life on earth . what 's the connection to climate ?	what role does the ocean play in the carbon cycle ?	what role does the ocean play in the carbon cycle ?
and they leave the atmosphere when they 're used by plants during photosynthesis , absorbed back into the ocean , or stored in soil and sediment . this game of tetris is called the carbon cycle , and it 's the engine of life on earth . what 's the connection to climate ?	how have humans altered the carbon cycle ?	how have humans altered the carbon cycle ?
to answer that question , we first need to examine how solar panels convert solar energy to electrical energy . solar panels are made up of smaller units called solar cells . the most common solar cells are made from silicon , a semiconductor that is the second most abundant element on earth .	what are the major physical barriers to using solar cells and modules ?	what are the major physical barriers to using solar cells and modules ?
to answer that question , we first need to examine how solar panels convert solar energy to electrical energy . solar panels are made up of smaller units called solar cells . the most common solar cells are made from silicon , a semiconductor that is the second most abundant element on earth .	what are most solar cells made from ?	what are most solar cells made from ?
to answer that question , we first need to examine how solar panels convert solar energy to electrical energy . solar panels are made up of smaller units called solar cells . the most common solar cells are made from silicon , a semiconductor that is the second most abundant element on earth .	what is the carrier of the electric current from solar cells ?	what is the carrier of the electric current from solar cells ?
to answer that question , we first need to examine how solar panels convert solar energy to electrical energy . solar panels are made up of smaller units called solar cells . the most common solar cells are made from silicon , a semiconductor that is the second most abundant element on earth .	how efficient are the normal commercial solar cells ?	how efficient are the normal commercial solar cells ?
finally , in 1947 , design improvements , such as a movable horizontal stabilizer , the all-moving tail , allowed an american military pilot named chuck yeager to fly the bell x-1 aircraft at 1127 km/h , becoming the first person to break the sound barrier and travel faster than the speed of sound . the bell x-1 was the first of many supersonic aircraft to follow , with later designs reaching speeds over mach 3 . aircraft traveling at supersonic speed create a shock wave with a thunder-like noise known as a sonic boom , which can cause distress to people and animals below or even damage buildings .	the mach number is equal to :	the mach number is equal to :
but to keep things consistent , the creators of star trek and other science-fiction worlds have introduced the concept of a universal translator , a portable device that can instantly translate between any languages . so is a universal translator possible in real life ? we already have many programs that claim to do just that , taking a word , sentence , or entire book in one language and translating it into almost any other , whether it 's modern english or ancient sanskrit . and if translation were just a matter of looking up words in a dictionary , these programs would run circles around humans .	a machine translator rearranges word order in the target language . what is one of the main problems that this could cause ?	a machine translator rearranges word order in the target language . what is one of the main problems that this could cause ?
our blood depends on us moving around to be able to circulate properly . our nerve cells benefit from movement , and our skin is elastic , meaning it molds to our motions . so if every inch of the body is ready and waiting for you to move , what happens when you just do n't ?	our bodily systems are designed for and in need of movement .	our bodily systems are designed for and in need of movement .
most scientists think it 's the former , that there 's some kind of energy driving the acceleration , and they called it < i > dark energy < /i > . today 's best measurements allow us to work out just how much of the universe is dark . it looks as if dark energy makes up about 68 % of the universe and dark matter about 27 % , leaving just 5 % for us and everything else we can actually see .	today 's best measurements estimate that about ___ % of the universe is dark matter .	today 's best measurements estimate that about ___ % of the universe is dark matter .
the alveolar walls are made of extremely thin flat cells that are surrounded by capillaries . together , the alveolar wall and capillaries make a two-cell thick membrane that brings blood and oxygen close enough for diffusion . these oxygen-enriched cells are then carried from the lungs through the cardiovascular network , a massive collection of blood vessels that reaches every cell in the body .	if all these major organ systems need to work together to achieve oxygen delivery , in what ways could the process of oxygen transportation from air to cell be positively influenced by the choices we make and the actions we take ?	if all these major organ systems need to work together to achieve oxygen delivery , in what ways could the process of oxygen transportation from air to cell be positively influenced by the choices we make and the actions we take ?
ok so gadolinium is smack-bang in the middle of the 4f series . it ’ s perhaps most famous for the fact that it ’ s used as a contrast reagent in mri machines .	one peculiarity of gadolinium is that it has a curie point very close to room temperature , namely at 19 ºc . so at room temperature gadolinium is…	one peculiarity of gadolinium is that it has a curie point very close to room temperature , namely at 19 ºc . so at room temperature gadolinium is…
but , heroes come in all shapes and sizes , depending on what needs to be dealt with . first , you have your epic heroes . epic heroes usually come from a famous family , have super-human strength , are unusually good-looking .	which of the following are qualities of an epic hero ?	which of the following are qualities of an epic hero ?
then , we need to store the co2 somewhere else . this mission is called carbon capture and sequestration , or ccs . and as if carbon dioxide were some evil genie we did n't want to escape , once it has been separated from coal , we 've devised ways to banish it underground .	explain how carbon capture and sequestration creates cleaner coal .	explain how carbon capture and sequestration creates cleaner coal .
parentheses pointed and exponents took the lead . then , it was multiplication , division , addition , and subtraction , each in turn , always the same order . p-e-m-d-a-s when they finished that set , they went to another , and another , always working inside the parentheses in pemdas order .	tell us how you remember the order of operations ? perhaps it 's some sort of mnemonic device .	tell us how you remember the order of operations ? perhaps it 's some sort of mnemonic device .
ladies and gentlemen of the jury , i implore you to deliver a verdict of guilty and send these words to their rightful fate . now imagine a world without these two words . imagine a world where real description is required , digging further into our vocabulary than just a monosyllabic effort to get away with not being honest , impactful , creative .	neel asks us to imagine a world where good and bad do not exist . what would this world be like ?	neel asks us to imagine a world where good and bad do not exist . what would this world be like ?
with it , a single worker could eventually clean from 300 to one thousand pounds of cotton a day . in 1790 , about 3,000 bales of cotton were produced in america each year . a bale was equal to about 500 pounds .	before the cotton gin was widely available , the american slave population was 700,000 in 1790. by 1860 , the narrator says , the slave population was :	before the cotton gin was widely available , the american slave population was 700,000 in 1790. by 1860 , the narrator says , the slave population was :
we typically pick them up as babies from our mothers ' mouths . and as our teeth erupt , they naturally begin to accumulate communities of bacteria . depending on what we eat , and specifically how much sugar we consume , certain microbes can overpopulate and cause cavities .	bacteria ruin our teeth by producing :	bacteria ruin our teeth by producing :
we typically pick them up as babies from our mothers ' mouths . and as our teeth erupt , they naturally begin to accumulate communities of bacteria . depending on what we eat , and specifically how much sugar we consume , certain microbes can overpopulate and cause cavities .	can you think of similarities and differences in how bacteria interact with different parts of our bodies ?	can you think of similarities and differences in how bacteria interact with different parts of our bodies ?
`` based on the evidence , is it logical to assume i 'll win any money ? '' four : consider the implications . imagine it 's election time , and you 've selected a political candidate based on their promise to make it cheaper for drivers to fill up on gas .	considering the implications of a decision means :	considering the implications of a decision means :
but the caves i want to share with you today are made completely of ice , specifically glacier ice as formed in the side of the tallest mountain in the state of oregon called mount hood . now , mount hood 's only one hour 's drive from portland , the largest city in oregon where over two million people live . now , the most exciting thing for a cave explorer is to find a new cave and be the first human to ever go into it .	mount hood ________ .	mount hood ________ .
they would set this off and it would give a great flash of light which could be used to take photographs . but because itís much slower than a flash it makes people really have quite a surprised look and this may well be why , in old photographs , people look so surprised because `` my god , this thing has gone off , whoosh ! '' so weíre on the hunt for a very dark place .	have you ever seen a very old photograph where the people have a surprised look ? the professor explained the reason . can you remember it ?	have you ever seen a very old photograph where the people have a surprised look ? the professor explained the reason . can you remember it ?
it 's estimated that blue whales eat four tons of krill per day . because of the incredible design , each dive provides the blue whale with 90 times as much energy as is used . every mouthful of krill provides almost 480,000 calories , the same amount you get from eating 1,900 hamburgers .	do some research . explain why it requires more energy for a whale to feed than it does for a whale to swim .	do some research . explain why it requires more energy for a whale to feed than it does for a whale to swim .
so , i think all good tornado talks need to start with an awesome tornado shot . and this is not that awesome tornado shot .	the enhanced fujita scale ________ .	the enhanced fujita scale ________ .
but this is only a simple example , since natural communities consist not of separate food chains , but networks of interactions . feedback loops will often be indirect , occurring through longer chains . a food web containing twenty populations can generate thousands of loops of up to twenty links in length . but instead of forming a disordered cacophany , feedback loops in ecological systems play together , creating regular patterns just like multiple instruments , coming together to create a complex but harmonious piece of music .	how many feedback loops are possible in a food web of 20 species ?	how many feedback loops are possible in a food web of 20 species ?
like genealogists , modern linguists try to map this process by tracing multiple languages back as far as they can to their common ancestor , or protolanguage . a group of all languages related in this way is called a language family , which can contain many branches and sub-families . so how do we determine whether languages are related in the first place ? similar sounding words do n't tell us much .	what does it mean for two languages to be related ?	what does it mean for two languages to be related ?
professor fukanō , the famous eccentric scientist and adventurer , has embarked on a new challenge : flying around the world nonstop in a plane of his own design . able to travel consistently at the incredible speed of one degree longitude around the equator per minute , the plane would take six hours to circle the world .	what makes this riddle easier to solve ?	what makes this riddle easier to solve ?
bees are very busy little matchmakers . wingmen in every sense of the word .	how much of our food production depends on bees ?	how much of our food production depends on bees ?
why did we have to read the scarlet letter ? puritans are boring even when one is a slut there 's actually one thing i still know eli whitney he invented the cotton gin definitely do not need that , though now it 's just a study that i used to know now it 's just a study that i used to know now and then i think of all the things i 've taught you every handout with a far side cartoon apropo you do n't want to live that way forgetting every word i say you said you 'd never let it go i guess mnemonic devices just were n't enough for you though you really freaking pissed me off i worked so hard to teach you something , now you do n't know nothing what does the comment symbolize ? or anything beyond the first three digits of pi and what about sohcahtoa or asexual reproduction of a protozoa i guess you did n't need that though now it 's just a study that you used to know a study i used to know now it 's just a study that you used to know i used to know a study	neuroscience question : think of one of the most memorable learning experiences you had that is still relevant to your life today . what characteristics of the experience made it memorable ? in what situations in your life today is it relevant ?	neuroscience question : think of one of the most memorable learning experiences you had that is still relevant to your life today . what characteristics of the experience made it memorable ? in what situations in your life today is it relevant ?
while the responsibilities for the girls of sparta were different , the high standards of excellence and expectation to serve sparta with their lives remained the same . spartan girls lived at home with their mothers as they attended school . their curriculum included the arts , music , dance , reading , and writing .	girls also received an education . which is the best statement summing up the reasoning behind their education ?	girls also received an education . which is the best statement summing up the reasoning behind their education ?
another cool thing we can do with light exposures is light painting , drawing in the dark with a torch or the light of a cell phone . lastly , iso sensitivity controls how sensitive the sensor is to light . if we use low sensitivity , we 'll need more light to register a photo .	iso controls	iso controls
the helium has a whole series of useful properties because it 's a very light gas , if you breathe in helium , you then start speaking like donald duck , in a very squeaky voice . helium . fantastic element .	helium is formed in stars by fusion of deuterium atoms . how is it formed on earth ?	helium is formed in stars by fusion of deuterium atoms . how is it formed on earth ?
the helium has a whole series of useful properties because it 's a very light gas , if you breathe in helium , you then start speaking like donald duck , in a very squeaky voice . helium . fantastic element .	after losing some balloons and having to use a large ladder , how did neil and pete get the balloon full of helium to sit on the table ?	after losing some balloons and having to use a large ladder , how did neil and pete get the balloon full of helium to sit on the table ?
the helium has a whole series of useful properties because it 's a very light gas , if you breathe in helium , you then start speaking like donald duck , in a very squeaky voice . helium . fantastic element .	if you breathe in helium , you will speak like donald duck . why ?	if you breathe in helium , you will speak like donald duck . why ?
the helium has a whole series of useful properties because it 's a very light gas , if you breathe in helium , you then start speaking like donald duck , in a very squeaky voice . helium . fantastic element .	why did helium substitute hydrogen as the gas of choice in party balloons and airships ?	why did helium substitute hydrogen as the gas of choice in party balloons and airships ?
but overall , sticking to the plastic rule made for a believable movie . you can freeze frame any part of the lego movie and look at a scene that you could practically make at home . “ we were always trying to echo and hark back to how a child might make a film .	why do you think it mattered to the creators that you can freeze almost any scene and re-create it at home ?	why do you think it mattered to the creators that you can freeze almost any scene and re-create it at home ?
air over the top goes significantly faster , reaching the trailing edge first . so how does a wing actually generate lift ? well the key is the wing must deflect air downwards this can be achieved using asymmetric or cambered air foils or by increasing the angle of attack air under the wing is deflected down and by the coanda effect air above the wing is guided along its surface and down as well since the air is slowed and deflected down by the wing , it pushes the wing up and back .	what is the key to explain how a wing generates lift ?	what is the key to explain how a wing generates lift ?
for 75 years , we 've tracked the lives of 724 men , year after year , asking about their work , their home lives , their health , and of course asking all along the way without knowing how their life stories were going to turn out . studies like this are exceedingly rare . almost all projects of this kind fall apart within a decade because too many people drop out of the study , or funding for the research dries up , or the researchers get distracted , or they die , and nobody moves the ball further down the field .	why do long-term studies like this typically not work ?	why do long-term studies like this typically not work ?
when the audience 's attention was aroused , he noticed their fidgeting would lessen . in his paper , published in nature , titled `` the measure of fidget '' galton determined people must fidget out of boredom ! this was before discussions about hyperactivity or sugar , or before the television ruined our attention span .	in his 1885 paper on the nature of fidget what did sir francis galton suggest was the cause of fidgeting ?	in his 1885 paper on the nature of fidget what did sir francis galton suggest was the cause of fidgeting ?
because each bit must be written onto a physical area of the disc , we 're always seeking to increase the disc 's areal density , or how many bits can be squeezed into one square inch . the areal density of a modern hard drive is about 600 gigabits per square inch , 300 million times greater than that of ibm 's first hard drive from 1957 . this amazing advance in storage capacity was n't just a matter of making everything smaller , but involved multiple innovations .	what components are in hard drives ?	what components are in hard drives ?
because each bit must be written onto a physical area of the disc , we 're always seeking to increase the disc 's areal density , or how many bits can be squeezed into one square inch . the areal density of a modern hard drive is about 600 gigabits per square inch , 300 million times greater than that of ibm 's first hard drive from 1957 . this amazing advance in storage capacity was n't just a matter of making everything smaller , but involved multiple innovations .	besides areal density , what are other considerations end-user would want from a hard drive . consider these applications : bank main frame , library archive , company server , home pc , laptop , portable music player and media streamer . should different applications require different types of hard drives ? why or why not ?	besides areal density , what are other considerations end-user would want from a hard drive . consider these applications : bank main frame , library archive , company server , home pc , laptop , portable music player and media streamer . should different applications require different types of hard drives ? why or why not ?
we have cleared the tower . [ mission audio ] [ ♪ ] in 2004 , following a 7-year journey through the solar system , cassini arrived at saturn . [ mission audio ] june 30 , 2004 saturn orbit insertion the spacecraft carried a passenger , the european huygens probe -- the first human-made object to land on a world in the distant outer solar system .	in what year did cassini launch ?	in what year did cassini launch ?
we have cleared the tower . [ mission audio ] [ ♪ ] in 2004 , following a 7-year journey through the solar system , cassini arrived at saturn . [ mission audio ] june 30 , 2004 saturn orbit insertion the spacecraft carried a passenger , the european huygens probe -- the first human-made object to land on a world in the distant outer solar system .	in what year did cassini arrive at saturn ?	in what year did cassini arrive at saturn ?
nerves are in fact bundles of cells called neurons and each of these neurons is highly specialized to carry nerve impulses , their form of electricity , in response to only one kind of stimulus , and in only one direction . the nerve impulse starts with a receptor , a specialized part of each nerve , where the electrical impulse begins . one nerve 's receptor might be a thermal receptor , designed only to respond to a rapid increase in temperature .	what are the specialized parts of the nerve called where the electrical impulse originates ?	what are the specialized parts of the nerve called where the electrical impulse originates ?
various types of tensors contain different amounts of information . does that mean there 's something that can convey more information than vectors ? absolutely .	which of the following statements is/are true about vectors ?	which of the following statements is/are true about vectors ?
so the empty space in one , c² must be equal to the empty space in the other , a² + b² . another proof comes from a fellow greek mathematician euclid and was also stumbled upon almost 2,000 years later by twelve-year-old einstein . this proof divides one right triangle into two others and uses the principle that if the corresponding angles of two triangles are the same , the ratio of their sides is the same , too .	euclid ’ s elegant proof of the pythagorean theorem ( also stumbled upon by einstein ) relies on which of the following principles ?	euclid ’ s elegant proof of the pythagorean theorem ( also stumbled upon by einstein ) relies on which of the following principles ?
methane had been acting as a potent greenhouse gas that kept the earth warm , but now , the extra oxygen reacted with methane to form carbon dioxide and water , which do n't trap as much heat . the thinner atmospheric blanket caused earth 's first , and possibly longest , ice age , the huronian glaciation . the planet was basically one giant snowball for several hundred million years .	the huronian glaciation :	the huronian glaciation :
[ why do n't we eat bugs ? ] for centuries , people have consumed bugs , everything from beetles to caterpillars , locusts , grasshoppers , termites , and dragonflies . the practice even has a name : entomophagy .	how many people eat bugs worldwide ?	how many people eat bugs worldwide ?
but we still need to find an actual cure . alzheimer 's disease was discovered more than a century ago , and yet still it is not well understood . perhaps one day we 'll grasp the exact mechanisms at work behind this threat and a solution will be unearthed .	when was alzheimer ’ s disease first discovered ?	when was alzheimer ’ s disease first discovered ?
and fibers with thicker layers of myelin can conduct signals 100 times faster or more than those with thinner ones . some scientists now think that this difference in myelination could be the key to uniform conduction time in the brain , and consequently , to our mental synthesis ability . a lot of this myelination happens in childhood , so from an early age , our vibrant imaginations may have a lot to do with building up brains whose carefully myelinated connections can craft creative symphonies throughout our lives .	how does myelination of axons in the brain regulate the timing of postsynaptic activations ?	how does myelination of axons in the brain regulate the timing of postsynaptic activations ?
i suspect that the colour may actually be caused by the burning balloon which contains carbon and is really like the flame on a candle . because normally when you have a hydrogen/oxygen flame you don ’ t see any colour at all . alternatively , it may be some impurities in the gas , but i suspect that what you are seeing in the fire ball is just the burning of the balloon .	what possible reason does the professor give for the color of the flame seen during the reaction between hydrogen and oxygen ?	what possible reason does the professor give for the color of the flame seen during the reaction between hydrogen and oxygen ?
and with the food surpluses that these techniques produced , it was no longer necessary for everyone to farm . this allowed the development of other specialized trades , and , by extension , cities . with cities now producing surplus food , as well as tools , crafts , and other goods , there was now the possibility of commerce and interaction over longer distances . and as trade flourished , so did technologies that facilitated it , like carts , ships , roads , and ports .	reliable food supplies allowed humans the luxury of free time , which provided the opportunity to produce items for trade . describe how the production of goods contributed to the growth of cities .	reliable food supplies allowed humans the luxury of free time , which provided the opportunity to produce items for trade . describe how the production of goods contributed to the growth of cities .
but when scientists turned from observing the brains of music listeners to those of musicians , the little backyard fireworks became a jubilee . it turns out that while listening to music engages the brain in some pretty interesting activities , playing music is the brain 's equivalent of a full-body workout . the neuroscientists saw multiple areas of the brain light up , simultaneously processing different information in intricate , interrelated , and astonishingly fast sequences .	“ playing music is the brain ’ s equivalent of a full-body workout. ” what could be some of the short and long term effects of keeping your brain in tip-top physical shape ?	“ playing music is the brain ’ s equivalent of a full-body workout. ” what could be some of the short and long term effects of keeping your brain in tip-top physical shape ?
what she found was the god cupid who sent gods and humans lusting after each other with the pinpricks of his arrows . psyche dropped her lamp , burning cupid with hot oil . he said he 'd been in love with psyche ever since his jealous mother , venus , asked him to embarrass the young woman by pricking her with an arrow . but taken with psyche 's beauty , cupid used the arrow on himself .	venus is jealous of psyche because :	venus is jealous of psyche because :
how many times do you think it could be folded like that ? and another question : if you could fold the paper over and over , as many times as you wish , say 30 times , what would you imagine the thickness of the paper would be then ? before you move on , i encourage you to actually think about a possible answer to this question .	paenza asks how thick the paper would be after 30 folds , and the answer is	paenza asks how thick the paper would be after 30 folds , and the answer is
the easiest solution to an overcrowded road is to make it bigger . but ants can ’ t just cut trails as wide as they want . wider roads take time and energy to maintain , and the pheromones that mark them become weaker . instead , ants get organized . it might not look like it , but there ’ s lanes here .	why are wider roads less efficient for ants ?	why are wider roads less efficient for ants ?
how electrons from one atom interact with electrons from another determines almost everything . atoms can give up their electrons , surrendering them to other atoms , or they can share electrons . and the dynamics of this social network are what make chemistry interesting .	how do we know what atoms “ look ” like ?	how do we know what atoms “ look ” like ?
technetium is the first element in the periodic table which is naturally radioactive , so it is the lightest radioactive element and so for a long time very little was known about it . now people are beginning to study it in suitably strong surroundings of ů to contain the radioactivity and they have discovered that the chemistry of technetium is in many ways quite similar to that of rhenium or manganese . and there are a number of medical treatments now which use the radioactivity of technetium in order to trace through the body and look at their emissions to find out about different diseases . and so the chemistry of technetium is becoming more important in the medical role , how to make a compound that you can get into the body safely and quickly so that it can be used for medical purposes .	which of these is a stable isotope of technetium ?	which of these is a stable isotope of technetium ?
technetium is the first element in the periodic table which is naturally radioactive , so it is the lightest radioactive element and so for a long time very little was known about it . now people are beginning to study it in suitably strong surroundings of ů to contain the radioactivity and they have discovered that the chemistry of technetium is in many ways quite similar to that of rhenium or manganese . and there are a number of medical treatments now which use the radioactivity of technetium in order to trace through the body and look at their emissions to find out about different diseases . and so the chemistry of technetium is becoming more important in the medical role , how to make a compound that you can get into the body safely and quickly so that it can be used for medical purposes .	what is the half-life of technetium-99m , which emits γ-rays as it reverts to technetium-99 ?	what is the half-life of technetium-99m , which emits γ-rays as it reverts to technetium-99 ?
while all three of these theories share the common features of déjà vu , none of them propose to be the conclusive source of the phenomenon . still , while we wait for researchers and inventers to come up with new ways to capture this fleeting moment , we can study the moment ourselves . after all , most studies of déjà vu are based on first-hand accounts , so why ca n't one be yours ?	how can a fragment of memory summon up a moment from the past ?	how can a fragment of memory summon up a moment from the past ?
if we ask what kinds of uses water is going towards , we see a different picture . agriculture accounts for roughly 70 % of global fresh water consumption . again , remember the numbers vary by region , but still , it 's a staggering amount .	what accounts for nearly 70 % of global fresh water consumption ?	what accounts for nearly 70 % of global fresh water consumption ?
there we go straight back down to background and if we take it away , and it picks back up again . and so people who are working with radioactive samples used to use , and still use , bricks made out of lead . so here are two of the bricks and you can see this is a small one and this one is rather thinner .	what is the color of the glass that contains lead , which is used to protect workers from radioactive samples while still allowing them to see the samples ?	what is the color of the glass that contains lead , which is used to protect workers from radioactive samples while still allowing them to see the samples ?
there we go straight back down to background and if we take it away , and it picks back up again . and so people who are working with radioactive samples used to use , and still use , bricks made out of lead . so here are two of the bricks and you can see this is a small one and this one is rather thinner .	as the professor explained , where in some old houses can we still find lead ?	as the professor explained , where in some old houses can we still find lead ?
regardless of how it ended up there , the non-native caulerpa multiplied rapidly , having no natural predators due to releasing a toxin that keeps fish away . and like some mythical monster , even a tiny piece that broke off could grow into a whole new colony . through water currents and contact with boat anchors and fishing lines , it fragmented and spread throughout mediterranean coastal cities covering coral reefs .	fragmentation refers to a tiny piece of the caulerpa seaweed getting disconnected . the disconnected piece can then start the growth of a new colony . therefore , touching the caulerpa , anchors , and fishing lines can lead to fragmentation , that is why the eradication technique in carlsbad involved :	fragmentation refers to a tiny piece of the caulerpa seaweed getting disconnected . the disconnected piece can then start the growth of a new colony . therefore , touching the caulerpa , anchors , and fishing lines can lead to fragmentation , that is why the eradication technique in carlsbad involved :
well , it 's important to remember that while anyone could have done what he did , he and the rest of the new york school were the ones who actually did it . they destroyed conventions of painting that had stood for centuries , forcing the art world to rethink them entirely . but one last reason why jackson pollock 's work has stayed prominent stems from the specific objects he made , which embody fascinating contradictions .	what are some of the “ conventions of painting ” that stood for centuries that the new york school artists challenged ?	what are some of the “ conventions of painting ” that stood for centuries that the new york school artists challenged ?
take , for example , the landers viking 1 and 2 , which relied on thrusters to arrive safely on the surface of mars . the problem ? those thrusters left foreign chemicals on the ground , contaminating soil samples .	thinking about your daily routine . what is a creative solution you ’ ve used to solve a problem ?	thinking about your daily routine . what is a creative solution you ’ ve used to solve a problem ?
suddenly the demand ended . prices were pushed to staggering lows , and pop ! the bubbles burst , and the market crashed .	what pushed tulip prices up ?	what pushed tulip prices up ?
i 'd say this is like spot-on fluent wernicke 's aphasia , damage to an area at the junction of two of the brain 's lobes , temporal and parietal , typically on the left side of the brain , is the culprit . this area is physically connected to broca 's area , that you mentioned , by a massive bundle of neurofibers called the arcuate fasciculus . i hypothesize that this massive bundle of connections is completely wiped out in a zombie .	the comprehension and production areas of the language circuit are connected by what bundle of fibers in the brain ?	the comprehension and production areas of the language circuit are connected by what bundle of fibers in the brain ?
suppose you placed a camera at a fixed position , took a picture of the sky at the same time everyday for an entire year and overlayed all of the photos on top of each other . what would the sun look like in that combined image ? a stationary dot ?	imagine that the earth had no axial tilt and its orbit was perfectly circular . how would you expect the path of the sun to change from day to day over the course of a year ? what would its analemma look like ?	imagine that the earth had no axial tilt and its orbit was perfectly circular . how would you expect the path of the sun to change from day to day over the course of a year ? what would its analemma look like ?
the answer lies within you . it 's your immune system . seasonal allergies , also called hay fever , or allergic rhinitis , are a hypersensitive immune response to something that 's not actually harmful . pollen from trees and grass , and mold spores from tiny fungi find their way into your mucous membranes and your body attacks these innocuous travelers the same way it would infectious bacteria .	which type of cells are most directly involved in the immune response ?	which type of cells are most directly involved in the immune response ?
caffeine is a stimulant drug that acts on your central nervous system . because caffeine is both lipid and water soluble it can easily pass through the blood-brain barrier and act on the interior of your brain once there , caffeine works by diminishing the effect of a neurotransmitter called adenosine . adenosine acts as a suppressor for your nervous system , reducing neural activity and slowing everything down .	true or false : caffeine can pass through the blood-brain barrier .	true or false : caffeine can pass through the blood-brain barrier .
by undoing these changes , we can trace the language from the present day back to its ancient roots . while modern english shares many similar words with latin-derived romance languages , like french and spanish , most of those words were not originally part of it . instead , they started coming into the language with the norman invasion of england in 1066 .	english shares many words with _____ because of borrowing .	english shares many words with _____ because of borrowing .
around the globe , there are approximately 60 million people who have been forced to leave their homes to escape war , violence , and persecution . the majority of them have become internally displaced persons , which means they have fled their homes but are still within their own countries . others have crossed a border and sought shelter outside of their own countries .	what is the difference between refugees and internally displaced persons ( idp ) ?	what is the difference between refugees and internally displaced persons ( idp ) ?
a peacock displays its magnificent tail feathers to attract peahens . feathers could have served these functions for dinosaurs too . exactly how feathered dinosaurs took flight is still a bit of a mystery .	dinosaurs used feathers to fly .	dinosaurs used feathers to fly .
they 've been used to study diseases , including measles , mumps , hiv , and ebola . we know that human cells have 46 chromosomes because a scientist working with hela discovered a chemcial that makes chromosomes visible . hela cells themselves actually have around 80 highly mutated chromosomes . hela cells were the first to be cloned . they 've traveled to outer space .	a disadvantage of working with hela cells in a laboratory is that :	a disadvantage of working with hela cells in a laboratory is that :
so even though i 'm the hero of the story , i do need to be saved . and now that you know the true story about us bats , you can learn how to protect such heroic animals . install a properly designed bat box , one of the easiest ways to provide shelter for bats .	which of these statements is true ?	which of these statements is true ?
cancer hijacks cells ' natural division machinery and forces them to put the pedal to the metal , growing rapidly and recklessly . but , using chemotherapeutic drugs , we take advantage of that aggressiveness , and we turn cancer 's main strength into a weakness .	there are many actions that you can take to improve your lifestyle and reduce your risk of developing cancer . how can you take an active role in cancer prevention ?	there are many actions that you can take to improve your lifestyle and reduce your risk of developing cancer . how can you take an active role in cancer prevention ?
this synchronous firing strengthens the connections between that set of neurons , linking them together into what 's known as a neuronal ensemble , in this case the one for pineapple . in neuroscience , this is called the hebbian principle , neurons that fire together wire together . if you try to imagine a pineapple later , the whole ensemble will light up , assembling a complete mental image .	the hebbian principle is based on the principle that : “ neurons that fire together , _____ . ”	the hebbian principle is based on the principle that : “ neurons that fire together , _____ . ”
and as other marine animals are struggling to survive in warmer and more acidic oceans , the jellyfish are thriving , and perhaps getting even more numerous . it does n't hurt that some can lay as many as 45,000 eggs in a single night . and there 's some jellyfish whose survival strategy almost sounds like science fiction .	some jellyfish can lay up to __________ eggs per night .	some jellyfish can lay up to __________ eggs per night .
a species that is evolved in a separate habitat will be susceptible to different limiting factors , different predators , different energy sources , and different climates . if the new habitat 's limiting factors fail to restrict the species growth , it will continue to multiply , out-competing native organisms for resources and disrupting the entire ecosystem . species are sometimes introduced into new habitats through natural factors , like storms , ocean currents , or climate shifts . the majority of invasive species , though , are introduced by humans .	species evolve to adapt to limiting factors in their native environment . when they are brought to a new environment , the new limiting factors may not restrict their growth .	species evolve to adapt to limiting factors in their native environment . when they are brought to a new environment , the new limiting factors may not restrict their growth .
as we saw in the last lesson , the correct way to tilt an object 's world line is using a lorentz transformation : einstein 's stretch and squash trick . so , to map out what gravity is doing to tom 's motion , we need to create a whole load of little patches of space-time , each transformed by different amounts . so that my world line is at a different angle in each one . and then , we 're ready to stitch everything together . we assemble a cozy quilt of space-time where world lines look curved .	why does sewing different patches of spacetime together lead to worldlines that looked curved ?	why does sewing different patches of spacetime together lead to worldlines that looked curved ?
rang out from the crowd , and about 50 men , some apparently dressed as native americans , marched down to griffin 's wharf , stormed aboard three ships , and threw 340 tea chests overboard . an infuriated british government responsded with the so-called coercive acts of 1774 , which , among other things , closed the port of boston until the locals compensated the east india company for the tea . that never happened .	the colonists responded to the so-called coercive acts by	the colonists responded to the so-called coercive acts by
these catastrophes contributed to the extinction of 95 % of species in the ocean , and on land , the strange reptiles of the permian gave way to the ancestors of the far more familiar dinosaurs we know today . but mass extinctions are not just a thing of the distant past . over the last few million years , the fluctuation of massive ice sheets at our planet 's poles has caused sea levels to rise and fall , changing weather patterns and ocean currents along the way .	paleontologists have identified many possible causes of mass extinctions . which of these has not been identified by paleontologists as an agent of mass extinction ?	paleontologists have identified many possible causes of mass extinctions . which of these has not been identified by paleontologists as an agent of mass extinction ?
others describe and divide time differently . some have fewer grammatical tenses , like japanese , which only distinguishes past from non-past , buli and tukang basi , which only distinguish future from non-future , and mandarin chinese with no verb tenses at all , only aspect . on the other hand , languages like yagwa split past tense into multiple degrees , like whether something happened hours , weeks , or years ago .	share a sentence that would be difficult to translate to a language with only future/non-future distinction . what extra words might you use to make the meaning clear ?	share a sentence that would be difficult to translate to a language with only future/non-future distinction . what extra words might you use to make the meaning clear ?
exercising , especially when we 're young , has all sorts of health benefits , like strengthening our bones , clearing out bad cholesterol from our arteries , and decreasing the risk of stroke , high blood pressure , and diabetes . our brains also release a number of chemicals when we workout , including endorphins . these natural hormones , which control pain and pleasure responses in the cental nervous system , can lead to feelings of euphoria , or , what 's often called , a runner 's high . increased endorphins and consistent physical activity in general can sharpen your focus and improve your mood and memory .	exercising increases the rush of endorphins , which lead to feelings of :	exercising increases the rush of endorphins , which lead to feelings of :
but newer studies have shown that synesthesia is actually mediated through our understanding of the shapes , colors and sounds that our senses apprehend . in order for the cross-sensory experiences to occur , the higher level ideas and concepts that our minds associate with the sensory input must be activated . for example , this shape can be seen as either the letter `` s '' or the number `` 5 , '' and synesthetes associate each with different colors or sounds based on how they interpret it despite the purely visual stimulus remaining identical .	in the real-life events , can you remember experiences that were enhanced by the meaning that the events had for you ?	in the real-life events , can you remember experiences that were enhanced by the meaning that the events had for you ?
this was to be a subject dear to voltaire 's heart , for under the guise of writing a national epic , he was dwelling at length on the bloody consequences of religious intolerance . right from the start , voltaire 's views on religion were expressed robustly . he was not an atheist . in part , because he thought that some minimal belief in a deity was useful for social cohesion .	true / false : voltaire was an atheist .	true / false : voltaire was an atheist .
vindauga was a compound , composed of two separate words : vindr , meaning wind and auga , meaning eye . the word vindauga was probably quite old , having come into being long before windows were made of glass . this type of metaphoric compound , called a kenning , was very popular in both norse and old english .	what might the first windows have looked like ?	what might the first windows have looked like ?
and finally , you can demonstrate disinterest , or that you 're not motivated by personal gain . logos is the use of logic and reason . this method can employ rhetorical devices such as analogies , examples , and citations of research or statistics .	logos focuses on the use of :	logos focuses on the use of :
so as soon as one starts to trickle out , you can pretty quickly wind up with a cascade on your hands . you ’ ve got a few different hormone cascades going on at any given moment , but one of the big ones -- one that ’ s really worth understanding -- is the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis , or the hpa axis , because you don ’ t want to have to say that every time . this is a complex series of interactions between three glands that ultimately regulates lots of your body ’ s daily processes , like digestion , sexuality , immune response , and how you handle stress .	briefly describe the significance of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis .	briefly describe the significance of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis .
light : it 's the fastest thing in the universe , but we can still measure its speed if we slow down the animation , we can analyze light 's motion using a space-time diagram , which takes a flipbook of animation panels , and turns them on their side . in this lesson , we 'll add the single experimental fact that whenever anyone measures just how fast light moves , they get the same answer : 299,792,458 meters every second , which means that when we draw light on our space-time diagram , it 's world line always has to appear at the same angle . but we saw previously that speed , or equivalently world line angles , change when we look at things from other people 's perspective .	we have chosen to draw the angle of light worldlines at 45 degrees . given the speed of light is 299,792,458 metres per second , what duration does a space-time diagram 20cm wide and 20cm tall represent ? scientists often like to set the speed of light , c , to 1 in what are called `` natural units . '' what do you think this means ? do the units matter ? why do you think the angle of 45 degrees is important ? ( hint - think about the stretch-and-squash trick . )	we have chosen to draw the angle of light worldlines at 45 degrees . given the speed of light is 299,792,458 metres per second , what duration does a space-time diagram 20cm wide and 20cm tall represent ? scientists often like to set the speed of light , c , to 1 in what are called `` natural units . '' what do you think this means ? do the units matter ? why do you think the angle of 45 degrees is important ? ( hint - think about the stretch-and-squash trick . )
his entry on political economy holds ideas he 'd later develop further in `` the social contract . '' d'alembert wrote the famous preliminary discourse , a key statement of the french enlightenment , championing independent investigative reasoning as the path to progress . louis de jaucourt wrote a quarter of the encyclopedia , 18,000 articles , 5,000,000 words , unpaid .	what would a supporter of the french enlightenment most likely deem the path to progress ?	what would a supporter of the french enlightenment most likely deem the path to progress ?
how high an we go now ? that would be the number with all ten fingers raised , or 1,023 . is it possible to go even higher ?	in representing the binary system on fingers , a raised first digit has the value 1 , a raised second digit the value 2 , a raised third digit the value 4 , all the way up to a raised tenth digit having the value 512. what number is represented by raising the first , third , fifth , and sixth fingers together ?	in representing the binary system on fingers , a raised first digit has the value 1 , a raised second digit the value 2 , a raised third digit the value 4 , all the way up to a raised tenth digit having the value 512. what number is represented by raising the first , third , fifth , and sixth fingers together ?
iodine is this beautifully-coloured element . it has this beautiful purple colour . if you put it in solution , the colour of the solution varies depending what you dissolve it in .	what are the beautiful purple plumes we can see released from the vessel in pete 's experiment ?	what are the beautiful purple plumes we can see released from the vessel in pete 's experiment ?
the united states of america 's declaration of independence would be signed in the last half-inch . or if we compared geologic time to a woman stretching her arms to a span of six feet , the simple act of filing her nails would wipe away all of recorded human history . finally , let 's imagine the history of the earth as your life : from the moment you 're born to your first day of high school . your first word , first time sitting up , and first time walking would all take place while life on earth was comprised of single-celled organisms . in fact , the first multicellular organism would n't evolve until you were 12 years old and starting 7th grade , right around the time your science teacher is telling the class how fossils are formed . the dinosaurs do n't appear until three months into 8th grade and are soon wiped out right around spring break .	100,000 years in the geologic history of earth would be considered	100,000 years in the geologic history of earth would be considered
the tomato is also releasing compounds that signal nearby tomato plants to release their own insect repellent . plants are constantly under attack . they face threats ranging from microscopic fungi and bacteria , small herbivores , like aphids , caterpillars , and grasshoppers , up to large herbivores , like tortoises , koalas , and elephants . all are looking to devour plants to access the plentiful nutrients and water in their leaves , stems , fruits , and seeds .	what are the different physical barriers that plants use to repel microscopic bacteria , fungi , and herbivores ?	what are the different physical barriers that plants use to repel microscopic bacteria , fungi , and herbivores ?
athletes , for instance , have a naturally higher bmi . so how does a person become obese ? at its most basic , obesity is caused by energy imbalance .	at what bmi is a person considered to be obese ?	at what bmi is a person considered to be obese ?
athletes , for instance , have a naturally higher bmi . so how does a person become obese ? at its most basic , obesity is caused by energy imbalance .	how does a person become obese ?	how does a person become obese ?
athletes , for instance , have a naturally higher bmi . so how does a person become obese ? at its most basic , obesity is caused by energy imbalance .	which of the following factors might play a role in a person becoming obese ?	which of the following factors might play a role in a person becoming obese ?
athletes , for instance , have a naturally higher bmi . so how does a person become obese ? at its most basic , obesity is caused by energy imbalance .	what is one reason an obese or formerly obese person might find it more difficult to lose weight ?	what is one reason an obese or formerly obese person might find it more difficult to lose weight ?
not play with it , but play it like a piano ? that question does n't make a lot of sense at first , but an abstract mathematical field called group theory holds the answer , if you 'll bear with me . in math , a group is a particular collection of elements .	the field of _____ theory is an abstract mathematical field which studies symmetry .	the field of _____ theory is an abstract mathematical field which studies symmetry .
and the way that we use ready-made phrases and responses gleaned from media reports or copied from the internet makes it easy to get away with not thinking too deeply or questioning your assumptions . so the next time you hear someone use the word orwellian , pay close attention . if they 're talking about the deceptive and manipulative use of language , they 're on the right track .	the word orwellian refers to the work of :	the word orwellian refers to the work of :
and the way that we use ready-made phrases and responses gleaned from media reports or copied from the internet makes it easy to get away with not thinking too deeply or questioning your assumptions . so the next time you hear someone use the word orwellian , pay close attention . if they 're talking about the deceptive and manipulative use of language , they 're on the right track .	how can the word orwellian be used in an orwellian way ?	how can the word orwellian be used in an orwellian way ?
the more similar two plants ' chemical fingerprints are , the more fluently they can communicate . a plant will be most sensitive to the cues emitted by its own leaves . but because these chemicals seem to be inherited , like human blood types , sagebrush plants communicate more effectively with relatives than with strangers . but sometimes , even other species can benefit .	individual sagebrush plant communicate most effectively with :	individual sagebrush plant communicate most effectively with :
now , we can be sure that asking either tee or eff a question put this way will yield 'ozo ' if the hypothetical question is true and 'ulu ' if it 's false regardless of what each word actually means . unfortunately , this does n't help us with arr . but do n't worry , we can use our first question to identify one alien lord that definitely is n't arr . then we can use the second to find out whether its tee or eff .	why is it important to identify an alien who is not arr ?	why is it important to identify an alien who is not arr ?
but the spin can speed up . if an ice skater is gliding across the ice in straight-line motion and she pulls her arms in , she keeps on gliding at the same speed . but if she is spinning on the ice and she pulls her arms in , you know what happens next .	if an ice skater pulls her arms in to her chest she can :	if an ice skater pulls her arms in to her chest she can :
when four consecutive lunar eclipses are all total , the series is called a tetrad . 'during the 21st century , there are 9 sets of tetrads , so i would describe tetrads as a frequent occurrence in the current pattern of lunar eclipses , ' says espenak . 'but this has not always been the case .	how many sets of tetrads are there in the 21st century ?	how many sets of tetrads are there in the 21st century ?
but the difficulty in translating `` you '' does n't end there . in languages like hausa or korana , the `` you '' form depends on the listener 's gender . in many more , it depends on whether they are one or many , such as with german `` du '' or `` ihr . ''	which is never used to distinguish between the right form of “ you ” in a language ?	which is never used to distinguish between the right form of “ you ” in a language ?
but in the case of the ammonium nitrate , or other substance in your cold pack , the attractive forces are not strong enough to change the odds , and random motion makes the particles composing the solid separate by dissolving into the water and never returning to their solid state . to put it simply , your cold pack gets cold because random motion creates more configurations where the solid and water mix together and all of these have even weaker particle interaction , less overall particle movement , and less heat than there was inside the unused pack . so while the disorder that can result from entropy may have caused your injury in the first place , its also responsible for that comforting cold that soothes your pain .	imagine you were going to design a heat pack that worked in a similar fashion as the cold pack described in the video . describe how the solid dissolution would occur and how the device would work as a heat pack instead of a cold pack .	imagine you were going to design a heat pack that worked in a similar fashion as the cold pack described in the video . describe how the solid dissolution would occur and how the device would work as a heat pack instead of a cold pack .
but in the case of the ammonium nitrate , or other substance in your cold pack , the attractive forces are not strong enough to change the odds , and random motion makes the particles composing the solid separate by dissolving into the water and never returning to their solid state . to put it simply , your cold pack gets cold because random motion creates more configurations where the solid and water mix together and all of these have even weaker particle interaction , less overall particle movement , and less heat than there was inside the unused pack . so while the disorder that can result from entropy may have caused your injury in the first place , its also responsible for that comforting cold that soothes your pain .	the main driving force that results in cold packs working is :	the main driving force that results in cold packs working is :
sets of numbers and whole equations can be represented with letters , too . other symbols are used to represent operations . some of these are especially valuable as shorthand because they condense repeated operations into a single expression .	the symbol used to represent a factorial is the :	the symbol used to represent a factorial is the :
sets of numbers and whole equations can be represented with letters , too . other symbols are used to represent operations . some of these are especially valuable as shorthand because they condense repeated operations into a single expression .	what are some sources of new mathematical symbols that have been widely used ?	what are some sources of new mathematical symbols that have been widely used ?
this is biochemistry , the study of how every part of the factory interacts to keep your life running smoothly in the face of extreme challenges . maybe there 's too much fuel ; your body will store the excess as glycogen or fat . maybe there 's not enough ; your body will use up those energy reserves .	when would your body convert sugar to fat ?	when would your body convert sugar to fat ?
today 's spermicides come as foam , cream , jelly , suppositories , and even a thin piece of translucent film that dissolves in the vagina . these products can be inserted directly into the vagina before intercourse , or can be combined with block methods , like a diaphragm or condom , for added proection . the third category for preventing pregnancy works by suppressing the action of an egg maturing in the ovary .	an added benefit of certain “ block ” methods of contraception is :	an added benefit of certain “ block ” methods of contraception is :
running electricity through these crystals made them change shape . both of these results , turning mechanical energy into electrical , and electrical energy into mechanical , were remarkable . but the discovery went uncelebrated for several decades .	in which of the following applications does the piezo element convert electrical energy into mechanical energy ?	in which of the following applications does the piezo element convert electrical energy into mechanical energy ?
running electricity through these crystals made them change shape . both of these results , turning mechanical energy into electrical , and electrical energy into mechanical , were remarkable . but the discovery went uncelebrated for several decades .	in which of the following applications does the piezo element convert mechanical energy into electrical energy ?	in which of the following applications does the piezo element convert mechanical energy into electrical energy ?
the unlucky infected developed fevers , vomiting , and rashes . 30 % of infected people died during the second week of infection . survivors bore scars and scabs for the rest of their lives .	what percentage of infected people would die after amallpox virus infection ?	what percentage of infected people would die after amallpox virus infection ?
surely , thespis will go down in history as the very first actor . he has changed the face of theater forever . and that was just the warm-up act .	all of the following are aspects of ancient greek theater except :	all of the following are aspects of ancient greek theater except :
everywhere on earth . and in pretty much every system too , there 's a hierarchy within the arts . art and music are normally given a higher status in schools than drama and dance .	what is the hierarchy within the arts that sir ken has observed around the world ?	what is the hierarchy within the arts that sir ken has observed around the world ?
but what i also want to point out is that small organisms also create small fluid motions , as well . and it 's these fluid motions that i study . and we can think about them like being footprints .	what components are required for particle image velocimetry ( piv ; the fluid measurement technique discussed here ) ?	what components are required for particle image velocimetry ( piv ; the fluid measurement technique discussed here ) ?
but what i also want to point out is that small organisms also create small fluid motions , as well . and it 's these fluid motions that i study . and we can think about them like being footprints .	once fluid velocity is measured , what quantities can be calculated ?	once fluid velocity is measured , what quantities can be calculated ?
that computational strategy works for any even number of musicians , but if you want a shortcut , it generalizes to a handy equation . plug in ten musicians , and we get odds of about 35 % . what if there were 1,000 musicians ? 1,000,000 ?	suppose there are 16 musicians . what are their chances of success ?	suppose there are 16 musicians . what are their chances of success ?
nuclear power relies on the fission of uranium nuclei and a controlled chain reaction that reproduces this splitting in many more nuclei . the atomic nucleus is densely packed with protons and neutrons bound by a powerful nuclear force . most uranium atoms have a total of 238 protons and neutrons , but roughly one in every 140 lacks three neutrons , and this lighter isotope is less tightly bound . compared to its more abundant cousin , a strike by a neutron easily splits the u-235 nuclei into lighter , radioactive elements called fission products , in addition to two to three neutrons , gamma rays , and a few neutrinos . during fission , some nuclear mass transforms into energy .	a sub-atomic event in which a uranium nucleus splits into lighter radioactive materials , neutrons , gamma rays , and neutrinos is called a :	a sub-atomic event in which a uranium nucleus splits into lighter radioactive materials , neutrons , gamma rays , and neutrinos is called a :
but humans just aren ’ t that good . the beginners ’ method that i learned uses 100 to 200 moves . speedcubers use more around 50 to 60 moves .	what is the friedrich method ?	what is the friedrich method ?
this synchronized rotation pushes fluid from the right side of the embryo to the left . on the node 's left-hand rim , other cilia sense this fluid flow and activate specific genes on the embryo 's left side . these genes direct the cells to make certain proteins , and in just a few hours , the right and left sides of the embryo are chemically different .	describe how the directional fluid flow is established at the node of embryos .	describe how the directional fluid flow is established at the node of embryos .
it 's because most of these babies were depictions of jesus and mary . they were influenced by the idea of the homunculus , which is latin for little man . these babies looked like benjamin button because philosophers believed jesus was born perfectly formed and unchanged .	what does ‘ homunculus ’ mean ?	what does ‘ homunculus ’ mean ?
scarring of the heart and the buildup of ecm following a heart attack can inhibit its beating , leading to further heart problems . what 's common to all these conditions is that although it retains some of the original functions , the scar tissue formed after a wound is inferior to the native tissue it replaces . however , there is hope .	what is the main and most abundant structural protein present in scar tissue ?	what is the main and most abundant structural protein present in scar tissue ?
that happens because as the airways constrict , air whistles as it passes through the narrowed space . these symptoms may make a person feel like they 're running out of air . yet counterintuitively , during an asthma attack , the inflammation can make it harder to exhale than inhale .	what are some of the common symptoms of asthma ? these symptoms may make a person feel like they are running out of air , but a phenomenon known as hyperinflation may be occurring . what happens in the lungs during hyperinflation ?	what are some of the common symptoms of asthma ? these symptoms may make a person feel like they are running out of air , but a phenomenon known as hyperinflation may be occurring . what happens in the lungs during hyperinflation ?
every type of cell carries the same book , but each has a set of bookmarks that tell it exactly which pages it needs to look up . so a bone cell reads only the set of instructions it needs to become bone . your brain cells , they read the set that tells them how to become brain .	explain in your own words how some cells know to be muscle and some know to be bone .	explain in your own words how some cells know to be muscle and some know to be bone .
so while networking may not be the most intuitive , or even for some of you introverts , the most comfortable skill , it 's a helpful tool to have as you think about getting a job , going to school , or most importantly , learning from others . good luck !	what are good strategies for meeting new people ?	what are good strategies for meeting new people ?
one of the most important world maps of medieval europe , it depicted the king holding a scepter and a gleaming gold nugget . mansa musa had literally put his empire and himself on the map . but material riches were n't the king 's only concern .	on which historical map did mansa musa appear ?	on which historical map did mansa musa appear ?
one of the most important world maps of medieval europe , it depicted the king holding a scepter and a gleaming gold nugget . mansa musa had literally put his empire and himself on the map . but material riches were n't the king 's only concern .	mansa musa was a devout _____ .	mansa musa was a devout _____ .
one of the most important world maps of medieval europe , it depicted the king holding a scepter and a gleaming gold nugget . mansa musa had literally put his empire and himself on the map . but material riches were n't the king 's only concern .	summarize mansa musa 's accomplishments and contributions to the mali empire upon his return from his pilgrimage to mecca .	summarize mansa musa 's accomplishments and contributions to the mali empire upon his return from his pilgrimage to mecca .
throughout the summer , other branches on the same sagebrush plant got eaten less by insects wandering through , and so did branches on neighboring bushes , suggesting that they had beefed up their anti-insect defenses . even moving the air from above a clipped plant to another one made the second plant more insect-resistant . these airborne cues increase the likelihood of seedling survival , and made adult plants produce more new branches and flowers .	plant communication is most similar to which human sense ?	plant communication is most similar to which human sense ?
researchers have studied the brain activity of people thinking through the classic and bridge versions . both scenarios activate areas of the brain involved in conscious decision-making and emotional responses . but in the bridge version , the emotional response is much stronger . so is activity in an area of the brain associated with processing internal conflict .	describe how brain-imaging studies offer insight into why responses to the bridge version differ from responses to the classical version .	describe how brain-imaging studies offer insight into why responses to the bridge version differ from responses to the classical version .
well , think of some of the worst odors you can imagine , like garbage , feces or rotting meat . all of these smells come from the activity of microorganisms , particularly bacteria , and , as disgusting as it may sound , similar bacteria live in the moisture-rich environment of your mouth . do n't panic .	bacteria cause the smells by breaking down _____ .	bacteria cause the smells by breaking down _____ .
sugar and salt hold on to water that microbes need to grow and actually suck moisture out of any cells that may be hanging around , thus destroying them . of course , too much sugar and salt can increase your risk of heart disease , diabetes , and high blood pressure , so these preservatives are best in moderation . antimicrobial nitrates and nitrites , often found in cured meats , ward off the bacteria that cause botulism , but they may cause other health problems . some studies linking cured meats to cancer have suggested that these preservatives may be the culprit .	nitrates defend against _______ , but may increase your risk of _______ .	nitrates defend against _______ , but may increase your risk of _______ .
well , in a word , chemistry , but that 's not very satisfying , is it ? well , the reason salt dissolves and oil does not comes down to the two big reasons why anything happens at all : energetics and entropy . energetics deals primarily with the attractive forces between things .	when salt dissolves , ________ .	when salt dissolves , ________ .
well , in a word , chemistry , but that 's not very satisfying , is it ? well , the reason salt dissolves and oil does not comes down to the two big reasons why anything happens at all : energetics and entropy . energetics deals primarily with the attractive forces between things .	in the video , “ dancing ” is used as an analogy to convey the ideas of energetics and entropy . can you build an explanation for why salt dissolves and oil doesn ’ t without using an analogy or personifying the ions and molecules ( referred to as anthropomorphism ) ? use only the definitions of energetics and entropy when building your explanation .	in the video , “ dancing ” is used as an analogy to convey the ideas of energetics and entropy . can you build an explanation for why salt dissolves and oil doesn ’ t without using an analogy or personifying the ions and molecules ( referred to as anthropomorphism ) ? use only the definitions of energetics and entropy when building your explanation .
if they refused to cooperate , they could be jailed for contempt , or more commonly , fired and blacklisted . ambitious politicians , like richard nixon and joseph mccarthy , used such hearings as a partisan weapon accusing democrats of being soft on communism and deliberately losing china to the communist bloc . mccarthy , a republican senator from wisconsin became notorious by flaunting ever-changing lists of alleged communists within the state department .	how can something like mccarthyism be used as a partisan weapon against another political party ? give an example .	how can something like mccarthyism be used as a partisan weapon against another political party ? give an example .
that means it derails this process of slowing your neurons down by blocking adenosine receptors . caffeine and adenosine have a similar molecular structure , close enough that caffeine can wedge into the adenosine receptors , but not close enough to activate them . to summarize , adenosine inhibits your neurons . caffeine inhibits the inhibitor , so it stimulates you . caffeine can also boost positive feelings . in some neurons , the adenosine receptors are linked to receptors for another molecule called dopamine .	adenosine 's relationship with caffeine is best described as :	adenosine 's relationship with caffeine is best described as :
it is possible for a candidate to not get a single person 's vote -- not one vote -- in 39 states , or the district of columbia , yet be elected president by winning the popular vote in just 11 of these 12 states : california , new york , texas , florida , pennsylvania , illinois , ohio , michigan , new jersey , north carolina , georgia or virginia . this is why both parties pay attention to these states . however , others argue that the electoral college protects small states such as rhode island , vermont and new hampshire , and even geographically large states with small populations like alaska , wyoming and the dakotas .	if it is possible to win the presidency by winning 11 large states , why do you think candidates pay attention to smaller states ? can you think of additional strategies that would benefit a democrat or a republican specifically ?	if it is possible to win the presidency by winning 11 large states , why do you think candidates pay attention to smaller states ? can you think of additional strategies that would benefit a democrat or a republican specifically ?
but even with this innovation , it was still a cumbersome method for writing large numbers . the way to a more useful and elegant system lay in something called positional notation . previous number systems needed to draw many symbols repeatedly and invent a new symbol for each larger magnitude .	which civilization developed positional notation for its numerical system ?	which civilization developed positional notation for its numerical system ?
it 's a rocket-powered jet pack ; we call it the sky crane . basically , this big rocket sits on top of our rover and when we 're ready to land , the rocket hovers in place and we slowly lower the rover to the ground . and then we touch down , we 're actually on the wheels , we 're ready to drive , day one .	though the actual curiosity rover weighed much less , how much did the entire rocket ( which included the rover ) weigh at the time of take off ?	though the actual curiosity rover weighed much less , how much did the entire rocket ( which included the rover ) weigh at the time of take off ?
but of course the torture device returned with a vengeance , this time targeting the unsuspecting public . in 1911 , a treadmill patent was registered in the u.s. , and by 1952 , the forerunner for today 's modern treadmill had been created . when the jogging craze hit the u.s. in the 1970s , the treadmill was thrust back into the limelight as an easy and convenient way to improve aerobic fitness , and lose unwanted pounds , which , to be fair , it 's pretty good at doing .	who invented the treadmill ?	who invented the treadmill ?
but of course the torture device returned with a vengeance , this time targeting the unsuspecting public . in 1911 , a treadmill patent was registered in the u.s. , and by 1952 , the forerunner for today 's modern treadmill had been created . when the jogging craze hit the u.s. in the 1970s , the treadmill was thrust back into the limelight as an easy and convenient way to improve aerobic fitness , and lose unwanted pounds , which , to be fair , it 's pretty good at doing .	what was the treadmill 's original purpose ?	what was the treadmill 's original purpose ?
but of course the torture device returned with a vengeance , this time targeting the unsuspecting public . in 1911 , a treadmill patent was registered in the u.s. , and by 1952 , the forerunner for today 's modern treadmill had been created . when the jogging craze hit the u.s. in the 1970s , the treadmill was thrust back into the limelight as an easy and convenient way to improve aerobic fitness , and lose unwanted pounds , which , to be fair , it 's pretty good at doing .	when was the treadmill first patented in the united states ?	when was the treadmill first patented in the united states ?
developing countries that are farther along in the industrialization process begin to see a fall in birth rates , due to factors such as increased education and opportunities for women outside of child-rearing and a move from rural to urban living that makes having large families less economically advantageous . finally , countries in advanced stages of industrialization reach a point where both birth and death rates are low , and the population remains stable or even begins to decline . now , let 's take a look at the projected population pyramids for the same three countries in 2050 .	in an advanced stage of industrialization , a country will exhibit which set of characteristics ?	in an advanced stage of industrialization , a country will exhibit which set of characteristics ?
as it turns out , it may have been more like this . in the third century bc , hieron , king of the sicilian city of syracuse , chose archimedes to supervise an engineering project of unprecedented scale . hieron commissioned a sailing vessel 50 times bigger than a standard ancient warship , named the syracusia after his city .	what was the name of the tyrant of syracuse ?	what was the name of the tyrant of syracuse ?
you can also use it to do terrain analysis . for example , if you 're building a ski resort , and you want people to get off the lift and have the most spectacular view possible , you use viewshed analysis that shows you what you can see from a certain point on the terrain . i used that to place myself digitally in the footsteps of robert e. lee , to ask , 'what could he see ? '	if you 're building a ski resort and you want people to get the most spectacular views , what do you use ?	if you 're building a ski resort and you want people to get the most spectacular views , what do you use ?
packing is the process of drawing district lines and packing in your opponents like cattle , into as few districts as possible . if more districts equals more votes , the fewer the districts there are , the fewer votes the opposition party will get . packing , then , decreases the opponent 's voter strength and influence .	if more districts equals more votes , the fewer the districts there are :	if more districts equals more votes , the fewer the districts there are :
it could be that children who are genetically different from each other are protected from disease . and that is still our best guess . so be comforted to know that even in the distant future , in the year 2012 , we still do n't know what sex is for .	what is our best guess for why sex exists ?	what is our best guess for why sex exists ?
alhazen 's theory accounts for a fact that the greek 's could n't easily explain : why it gets dark sometimes . the idea is that very few objects actually emit their own light . the special , light-emitting objects , like the sun or a lightbulb , are known as sources of light . most of the things we see , like that pencil on your desk , are simply reflecting light from a source rather than producing their own .	who hypothesized that light was not perceived by tiny probes released from the eyes , but rather by sensing the light emitted by objects outside of the body ?	who hypothesized that light was not perceived by tiny probes released from the eyes , but rather by sensing the light emitted by objects outside of the body ?
`` that 's history . you ca n't judge a guy in the 15th century by modern standards . people back then even thought spreading christianity and civilization across the world was a moral duty . '' `` actually , he was pretty bad , even by old standards . while governing hispaniola , he tortured and mutilated natives who did n't bring him enough gold and sold girls as young as nine into sexual slavery , and he was brutal even to the other colonists he ruled , to the point that he was removed from power and thrown in jail .	do humanity ’ s moral standards change with time , or are there certain things that would shock people in any era ?	do humanity ’ s moral standards change with time , or are there certain things that would shock people in any era ?
so if you need a full body scan , a doctor will come along an inject you with a solution which contains a bit of gadolinium and what it basically does is that it changes the way that molecules , water molecules react in your body when they are scanned and then you can see the contrast between healthy tissue and , perhaps , unhealthy tissue and then that aids the doctors in their assignment . the thing about the lanthanide series is that it ’ s probably the best example of a smooth contraction in size as you move from the left-hand side to the right-hand side and you lose about 25 % of the radius of the atoms as you move from the left to the right and this is called the ‘ lanthanide contraction. ’ this is actually what ’ s responsible for 2nd and 3rd row transition metals having very similar types of chemistry by group even though actually they should be quite different . the 3rd row should be much larger but , because of the ‘ lanthanide contraction ’ , that increase in size is counterbalanced so they actually end up being more- or-less the same size as their 2nd row counterparts .	as steve explained , the lanthanide series is one of the best parts of the periodic table to study how the size of the atoms changes as you move from the left to the right of the table . what is the name of this progressive decline ?	as steve explained , the lanthanide series is one of the best parts of the periodic table to study how the size of the atoms changes as you move from the left to the right of the table . what is the name of this progressive decline ?
it represented , for many years , the pinnacle of human civilization , so its destruction left a huge void . theologians , who preached about a world beyond the physical , began attracting an audience as rome crumbled , and christianity started to fill the void left by the empire . as a replacement for the physical beauty of rome , christianity offered a metaphysical beauty of virtue and an eternal heaven that could not be destroyed as rome had .	what did christianity offer in place of the crumbling roman empire ?	what did christianity offer in place of the crumbling roman empire ?
but as france sank into debt due to its support of the american revolution and its long-running war with england , change was needed . king louis appointed finance minister jacques necker , who pushed for tax reforms and won public support by openly publishing the government 's finances . but the king 's advisors strongly opposed these initiatives .	king louis went from being revered to being beheaded . what actions did he take that contributed to his fate ?	king louis went from being revered to being beheaded . what actions did he take that contributed to his fate ?
and it was n't always an s at the end either . in merry old english , they could add other sounds to the end . just like more than one child is children , more than one lamb was lambru , you fried up your eggru , and people talked not about breads , but breadru .	in old english , what did you add onto the end of the words lamb , egg , and bread to make them plural ?	in old english , what did you add onto the end of the words lamb , egg , and bread to make them plural ?
now and then i think of what i learned in high school like ap bio and british literature is that igneous or metamorphic ? i do n't need to write a nine bic and i 'll admit i do n't know shit about millard fillmore why did i have to learn this stuff ?	math problem : in high school , students are in class for approximately 1,000 hours per year . how many years of school have you attended ? approximately how many hours have you been a student in a classroom ?	math problem : in high school , students are in class for approximately 1,000 hours per year . how many years of school have you attended ? approximately how many hours have you been a student in a classroom ?
now and then i think of what i learned in high school like ap bio and british literature is that igneous or metamorphic ? i do n't need to write a nine bic and i 'll admit i do n't know shit about millard fillmore why did i have to learn this stuff ?	art assignment : what can you remember from high school ? imagine using a large blank paper to create an illustrated mindmap of the subjects you studied and what you remember from those classes . how big a paper would you need and how long would it take to get most of the way through it ( 80 % done ) ?	art assignment : what can you remember from high school ? imagine using a large blank paper to create an illustrated mindmap of the subjects you studied and what you remember from those classes . how big a paper would you need and how long would it take to get most of the way through it ( 80 % done ) ?
now and then i think of what i learned in high school like ap bio and british literature is that igneous or metamorphic ? i do n't need to write a nine bic and i 'll admit i do n't know shit about millard fillmore why did i have to learn this stuff ?	history/english question : over the past 100 years , who has been making the decisions about what material and activities to include in high school curriculum ?	history/english question : over the past 100 years , who has been making the decisions about what material and activities to include in high school curriculum ?
now and then i think of what i learned in high school like ap bio and british literature is that igneous or metamorphic ? i do n't need to write a nine bic and i 'll admit i do n't know shit about millard fillmore why did i have to learn this stuff ?	education question : when you are next in school , what could you do to get more value out of the time and money you put in ?	education question : when you are next in school , what could you do to get more value out of the time and money you put in ?
two : listen with your eyes and ears , as well as with your gut . remember that communication is more than just words . three : take time to understand as you try to be understood .	noise can be defined as any interference that disrupts and/or distorts communication . what are some examples of noise ? what sources of noise do you struggle with the most in your own communication ?	noise can be defined as any interference that disrupts and/or distorts communication . what are some examples of noise ? what sources of noise do you struggle with the most in your own communication ?
two : listen with your eyes and ears , as well as with your gut . remember that communication is more than just words . three : take time to understand as you try to be understood .	why is communication often more difficult with a large group than a single individual ?	why is communication often more difficult with a large group than a single individual ?
... and i 'm scratching , and i like to hide . oh , i am such a good spider . i will turn this way , and i will , let 's see ...	how did the narration add to the spider video ?	how did the narration add to the spider video ?
you ask surprising questions . to achieve the complicated , fragile human connection , you regard the stories of every subject as sacred . realize that an anecdote is oxygen that breathes life into a grey story of exposition , facts and data .	humanistic stories provide what service for the reader ?	humanistic stories provide what service for the reader ?
and indeed , i think we can , and that 's at the core of a field called haptics , and this is the area that i work in . it 's all about interactive touch technology . and the way it works is , as you move your body through the world , if , as an engineer , i can make a system that can measure that motion , and then present to you sensations over time that kind of make sense , that match up with what you might feel in the real world , i can fool you into thinking you 're touching something even though there 's nothing there .	what is the word used to describe interactive touch technology ?	what is the word used to describe interactive touch technology ?
and indeed , i think we can , and that 's at the core of a field called haptics , and this is the area that i work in . it 's all about interactive touch technology . and the way it works is , as you move your body through the world , if , as an engineer , i can make a system that can measure that motion , and then present to you sensations over time that kind of make sense , that match up with what you might feel in the real world , i can fool you into thinking you 're touching something even though there 's nothing there .	what 's an example of a place the technology that kuchenbecker is developing could be used ?	what 's an example of a place the technology that kuchenbecker is developing could be used ?
but why does size matter so much for a swimmer ? what makes the world of a sperm so fundamentally different from that of a sperm whale ? to find out , we need to dive into the physics of fluids .	in the video , the narrator asks , `` what makes the world of a sperm so fundamentally different from that of a sperm whale ? '' after a whale flaps its tail , it can coast ahead for a long distance . how far would a sperm travel if it stopped moving its tail ?	in the video , the narrator asks , `` what makes the world of a sperm so fundamentally different from that of a sperm whale ? '' after a whale flaps its tail , it can coast ahead for a long distance . how far would a sperm travel if it stopped moving its tail ?
even though each of limb transfers is a pretty dramatic event for the people involved , if we zoom out , we see population numbers that do n't change . we call this nirvana equilibrium , and it does n't just happen with chemical reactions . things like gene pools and highway traffic show the same pattern .	what is the ratio between reactants and products after equilibrium has been established ?	what is the ratio between reactants and products after equilibrium has been established ?
or let her adopt your firstborn child ? all of these things might not sound so strange if you are involved in a gift economy . this phrase might seem contradictory .	what is the most important element in a gift economy ?	what is the most important element in a gift economy ?
or let her adopt your firstborn child ? all of these things might not sound so strange if you are involved in a gift economy . this phrase might seem contradictory .	how can a gift economy coexist with a market economy in the same society ?	how can a gift economy coexist with a market economy in the same society ?
so the blue one in the middle of this series is argon , so again this is a very nice glass tube that we ’ ve had made with a low pressure of argon inside . we ’ ve put a potential across from the two ends , here and here , and this excites all the argon molecules inside so you can see this wonderful characteristic eerie blue glow coming off from the argon . argon is one of the noble gases or so-called rare gases . it ’ s not really quite so rare .	how is argon produced industrially ?	how is argon produced industrially ?
so the blue one in the middle of this series is argon , so again this is a very nice glass tube that we ’ ve had made with a low pressure of argon inside . we ’ ve put a potential across from the two ends , here and here , and this excites all the argon molecules inside so you can see this wonderful characteristic eerie blue glow coming off from the argon . argon is one of the noble gases or so-called rare gases . it ’ s not really quite so rare .	why is argon used to fill incandescent light bulbs ?	why is argon used to fill incandescent light bulbs ?
the discovery of the structure of dna was one of the most important scientific achievements in the last century , in human history , in fact . the now-famous double helix is almost synonymous with watson and crick , two of the scientists who won the nobel prize for figuring it out .	explain why it is so important that we know the structure of dna .	explain why it is so important that we know the structure of dna .
he formed them in the image of the gods , but zeus decreed they were too remain mortal and worship the inhabitants of mount olympus from below . zeus deemed humans subservient creatures vulnerable to the elements and dependent on the gods for protection . however , prometheus envisioned his crude creations with a greater purpose . so when zeus asked him to decide how sacrifices would be made , the wily prometheus planned a trick that would give humans some advantage . he killed a bull and divided it into two parts to present to zeus .	zeus wanted the humans prometheus had made :	zeus wanted the humans prometheus had made :
in the long list of charges that jefferson made against the king of england , the author of the declaration had included the idea that george the third was responsible for the slave trade , and was preventing america from ending slavery . that was not only untrue , but congress wanted no mention of slavery in the nation 's founding document . the reference was cut out before the declaration was approved and sent to the printer .	what might have happened if the men in congress who opposed slavery did not go along with the decision to remove jefferson ’ s reference to slavery ?	what might have happened if the men in congress who opposed slavery did not go along with the decision to remove jefferson ’ s reference to slavery ?
experiments had shown that rather than simply being discrete particles , electrons simultaneously behaved like waves , not being confined to a particular point in space . and in formulating his famous uncertainty principle , werner heisenberg showed it was impossible to determine both the exact position and speed of electrons as they moved around an atom . the idea that electrons can not be pinpointed but exist within a range of possible locations gave rise to the current quantum model of the atom , a fascinating theory with a whole new set of complexities whose implications have yet to be fully grasped .	bohr ’ s “ planetary model ” states that electrons are in specific energy levels or “ orbits ” around the nucleus . explain how this is not possible using heisenberg ’ s uncertainty principle .	bohr ’ s “ planetary model ” states that electrons are in specific energy levels or “ orbits ” around the nucleus . explain how this is not possible using heisenberg ’ s uncertainty principle .
but i 've been working on them . we can be models . i could take off my shirt mad sexy .	list five people you feel are good role models for people with insecurities or low self esteem . explain why you listed each person .	list five people you feel are good role models for people with insecurities or low self esteem . explain why you listed each person .
huge flashes of lightning illuminated the landscape , exposing the fleet as if it were daytime , which warned the spanish about his approach . lake maracaibo is the stormiest place on the planet . the massive body of water at over 13,000 square kilometers is a place of almost perpetual storming .	how often do thunderstorms occur over lake maracaibo each year ?	how often do thunderstorms occur over lake maracaibo each year ?
we caught him on an automatic camera trap in an undisclosed location ; i 'm not allowed to talk about it yet . but they 're moving into new york city for the first time . they 're very flexible , intelligent animals .	according to munshi-south , what animal is moving into new york city for the first time ?	according to munshi-south , what animal is moving into new york city for the first time ?
in the mid-fifteenth century , fist developed into the verb fisten , to break wind , which eventually lead to the modern word feisty , but that 's another story . in its earliest form , as a variant of fisten , fizzle had a very specific meaning : to break wind without noise . surprisingly , considering this initial definition , by the 1800s , the word fizzle referred instead to a specific sound , rather graphically , to the sputtering or hissing of a gas or liquid being forced out of a narrow opening .	why do you think the original definition of fizzle ( “ to break wind without noise ” ) is no longer used ?	why do you think the original definition of fizzle ( “ to break wind without noise ” ) is no longer used ?
can ’ t log off ? surprisingly , 5-10 % of internet users are actually unable to control how much time they spend online . though it ’ s a psychological addiction as opposed to a substance addiction , brain scans of these people actually show a similar impairment of regions that those with drug dependence have .	of the people who do spend time on social media sites , what percentage are unable to control the amount of time they spend online ?	of the people who do spend time on social media sites , what percentage are unable to control the amount of time they spend online ?
a type i , or planetary civilization , can access all the energy resources of its home planet . in our case , this is the 174,000 terawatts earth receives from the sun . we currently only harness about 15 terawatts of it , mostly by burning solar energy stored in fossil fuels .	in comparison to the total energy radiated by the sun , what earth receives from the sun represents about :	in comparison to the total energy radiated by the sun , what earth receives from the sun represents about :
for example , a letter is represented in one byte , or eight bits , and your average photo takes up several megabytes , each of which is 8 million bits . because each bit must be written onto a physical area of the disc , we 're always seeking to increase the disc 's areal density , or how many bits can be squeezed into one square inch . the areal density of a modern hard drive is about 600 gigabits per square inch , 300 million times greater than that of ibm 's first hard drive from 1957 . this amazing advance in storage capacity was n't just a matter of making everything smaller , but involved multiple innovations .	what is not one of the innovations that help increasing areal density of hard drives ?	what is not one of the innovations that help increasing areal density of hard drives ?
according to plato , only very specific types of music were beneficial to a person 's ethos . one should only listen to music that promotes intelligence , self-discipline , and courage , and all other kinds of music must be avoided . furthermore , plato fervently denounced any music that deviated from established musical conventions , fearing that doing so would lead to the degradation of the standards of civilization , the corruption of youth , and eventually complete and utter anarchy .	pick one of the muses and think about the art form or science she influenced . what are some ways her discipline is expressed in music or art today ?	pick one of the muses and think about the art form or science she influenced . what are some ways her discipline is expressed in music or art today ?
because it 's essential to life , we need to think about it carefully . right now , at this very moment , some people , women and girls in particular , walk hours and miles per day to get fresh water , and even then , it may not be clean . every 15 seconds , a child dies due to water-born diseases .	what do some people ( women and girls in particular ) do for water ?	what do some people ( women and girls in particular ) do for water ?
think of positive work as money being added to your bank account , and negative work as money taken out . in the metric system , work and energy are measured in joules . as an example , let 's take a beautiful , old , mechanical grandfather clock .	in the metric system , work and energy are measured in :	in the metric system , work and energy are measured in :
our innate sense of “ what ’ s fair ” leads to the biggest psychological illusion that we experience on the road . why does traffic always move faster in the other lane ? well , spoilers first : it doesn ’ t .	when one lane of traffic shuts down , which of the two following options moves traffic along at a faster rate ?	when one lane of traffic shuts down , which of the two following options moves traffic along at a faster rate ?
mathematics is thus an invented logic exercise , with no existence outside mankind 's conscious thought , a language of abstract relationships based on patterns discerned by brains , built to use those patterns to invent useful but artificial order from chaos . one proponent of this sort of idea was leopold kronecker , a professor of mathematics in 19th century germany . his belief is summed up in his famous statement : `` god created the natural numbers , all else is the work of man . ''	name at least one mathematical idea or principle that you feel is a strictly man-made application or phenomena .	name at least one mathematical idea or principle that you feel is a strictly man-made application or phenomena .
you 're better off in the long run specializing on a generalist plant that gets pollinated by other species in times when you 're not around to help . finally , in addition to nestedness , the networks are usually modular . this means that the species in a network are compartmentalized into modules of plants and animals that interact more with each other than with species in other modules .	in addition to nestedness , the networks are usually “ modular. ” what a modular structure means and which is the advantage of a modular structure ?	in addition to nestedness , the networks are usually “ modular. ” what a modular structure means and which is the advantage of a modular structure ?
these people have non-celiac gluten sensitivity . they experience painful gut symptoms and suffer from fatigue , brain fog , joint pain or skin rash . a gluten-free diet typically helps with these symptoms .	painful gut symptoms , fatigue , brain fog , joint pain and skin rash are all symptoms of :	painful gut symptoms , fatigue , brain fog , joint pain and skin rash are all symptoms of :
with each new wave of inventions , they 've encountered the same obstacle - rapid species evolution . as pesticides destroy pest populations , they leave behind only the most resistant individuals . they then pass on their pesticide-resisting genes to the next generation .	which of the organisms listed below can be considered a pest ?	which of the organisms listed below can be considered a pest ?
at the same time , the more chaotic the story , the less you should try to follow it in real time . in events like terrorist attacks and natural disasters , today 's media attempts continuous coverage even when no reliable new information is available , sometimes leading to incorrect information or false accusations of innocent people . it 's easy to be anxious in such events , but try checking for the latest information at several points in the day , rather than every few minutes , allowing time for complete details to emerge and false reports to be refuted .	there are billions of outlets , but most people only rely on a few for their information . which places do you go first when you want more information on breaking news ? which outlets do you trust the least ?	there are billions of outlets , but most people only rely on a few for their information . which places do you go first when you want more information on breaking news ? which outlets do you trust the least ?
by systematically comparing these features and looking for regular patterns of sound changes and correspondences between languages , linguists can determine relationships , trace specific steps in their evolution and even reconstruct earlier languages with no written records . linguistics can even reveal other important historical clues , such as determining the geographic origins and lifestyles of ancient peoples based on which of their words were native , and which were borrowed . there are two main problems linguists face when constructing these language family trees .	what can linguistics teach us about the history and culture of ancient peoples ?	what can linguistics teach us about the history and culture of ancient peoples ?
that process also creates a high energy molecule , called atp which the cell uses to power all of its parts . plant cells make energy a different way . they have chloroplasts that combine carbon dioxide and water with light energy from the sun to create oxygen and sugar , a form of chemical energy .	cells need energy to perform all of their functions . where in the cell is energy made ?	cells need energy to perform all of their functions . where in the cell is energy made ?
in fact , several forest species , such as select conifers , need fire to survive . but how can fire possibly create life in addition to destroying it ? the answer lies in the way that certain forests grow .	the great naturalist , charles darwin considered the use of fire one of the most important achievements of humanity . defend the above statement with empirical evidence from your own life .	the great naturalist , charles darwin considered the use of fire one of the most important achievements of humanity . defend the above statement with empirical evidence from your own life .
but this was n't a scene from a horror film or a gruesome police report . dr. scoville was one of the most renowned neurosurgeons of his time , and the young man was henry molaison , the famous patient known as `` h.m. '' , whose case provided amazing insights into how our brains work . as a boy , henry had cracked his skull in an accident and soon began having seizures , blacking out and losing control of bodily functions .	why is so important for the medical community to be able to study the medical history of patients such as henry molaison for such a long time period and in so many ways ?	why is so important for the medical community to be able to study the medical history of patients such as henry molaison for such a long time period and in so many ways ?
but this was n't a scene from a horror film or a gruesome police report . dr. scoville was one of the most renowned neurosurgeons of his time , and the young man was henry molaison , the famous patient known as `` h.m. '' , whose case provided amazing insights into how our brains work . as a boy , henry had cracked his skull in an accident and soon began having seizures , blacking out and losing control of bodily functions .	after dr. scoville , the renowned neurologist operated on h.m. and removed his hippocampus , what about henry stayed nearly the same ?	after dr. scoville , the renowned neurologist operated on h.m. and removed his hippocampus , what about henry stayed nearly the same ?
well , let 's start with the tulips to get a better idea . the 17th century saw the netherlands enter the dutch golden age . by the 1630s , amsterdam was an important port and commercial center .	the 'dutch golden age ' was in which century ?	the 'dutch golden age ' was in which century ?
we can decide who the winner is using the d=rt formula , or dirt . this stands for distance equals rate times time . in the case of bleebop and mark , we will only know the distance they traveled and the time it took for them to get to the finish line .	how do you solve for rate when you know the distance and the time ?	how do you solve for rate when you know the distance and the time ?
these numbers are just for the sake of example . actual amounts vary considerably . so here , if you do n't sell any extra tickets , you make $ 45,000 .	what might be the ethical responsibilities associated with overbooking . could these responsibilities vary in different areas ?	what might be the ethical responsibilities associated with overbooking . could these responsibilities vary in different areas ?
this is the bop . the bop is a type of social dance . dance is a language , and social dance is an expression that emerges from a community .	social dance conveys emotion . it could be past emotions or emotions present at this time . watch the participants for a few moments . provide descriptions of how social dancers convey joy , despair , connection , and defiance .	social dance conveys emotion . it could be past emotions or emotions present at this time . watch the participants for a few moments . provide descriptions of how social dancers convey joy , despair , connection , and defiance .
this alienated his most powerful ally , the earl of warwick . warwick allied with the lancasters , turned edward 's jealous younger brother , george , against him , and even briefly managed to restore henry as king , but it did n't last . edward recaptured the throne , the lancaster prince was killed in battle , and henry himself died in captivity not long after .	what was the ultimate fate of edward v and his brother -- the 'princes in the tower ' ?	what was the ultimate fate of edward v and his brother -- the 'princes in the tower ' ?
when you see leaves turn from green to red , and watch migrating birds fly past , and realize that summer is over , autumn is here , you 're using phenology . literally meaning , `` the science of appearance '' , phenology comes from the greek words `` pheno , '' to show or appear , and `` logos , '' to study . humans have relied on phenology since the time of hunters and gatherers .	phenology comes from two greek words : pheno and logos . what do they mean ?	phenology comes from two greek words : pheno and logos . what do they mean ?
there 's a prevailing attitude that art does n't matter in the real world . but the study of art can enhance our perception and our ability to translate to others what we see . those skills are useful . those skills can save lives . doctors , nurses , and law enforcement agents can use painting , sculpture , and photography as tools to improve their visual acuity and communication skills , which are critical during investigations and emergencies .	art can be used in which of the following professions to enhance observation and perception skills :	art can be used in which of the following professions to enhance observation and perception skills :
perhaps its most famous use is in television screens . in fact , most or many of the rare earths can fluoresce in this way and give out light , but europium is particularly good at giving a very nice red colour , and so europium salts are used in television screens , not lcd screens like you have on the laptop , but the old-fashioned cathode ray televisions . so it ’ s very good at phosphorescence , for example , so we use it in the tubes in tv screens to get different colours .	in what kind of old-fashioned machines can you find europium ?	in what kind of old-fashioned machines can you find europium ?
in 1861 , two scientists got into a very brainy argument . specifically , they had opposing ideas of how speech and memory operated within the human brain . ernest aubertin , with his localistic model , argued that a particular region or the brain was devoted to each separate process .	are the brain areas responsible for carrying out the production and comprehension of speech the same or different ? how do we know ?	are the brain areas responsible for carrying out the production and comprehension of speech the same or different ? how do we know ?
constantinople was designed to be the center of the world . when the frontiers of the roman empire began to crumble in the 4th century , the capital was moved to the cultured , wealthy , and still stable east . there , at the crossroads between europe and asia , the hub of the major trade routes of the ancient world , the emperor constantine built his city .	the capital of the roman empire was moved to constantinople in the 4th century because	the capital of the roman empire was moved to constantinople in the 4th century because
do you change your mind about him based on this second encounter , or do you go with your first impression and write him off ? research in social psychology suggests that we 're quick to form lasting impressions of others based on their behaviors . we manage to do this with little effort , inferring stable character traits from a single behavior , like a harsh word or a clumsy step .	research suggests that we can form stable impressions of other people based on as little as a single behavior . what is the ultimate benefit and importance of this ability ?	research suggests that we can form stable impressions of other people based on as little as a single behavior . what is the ultimate benefit and importance of this ability ?
even when flu strains mutate further , the vaccine is often close enough that a vaccinated person who catches the flu anyway will have a milder and shorter illness than they would otherwise . vaccination also helps protect other people in the community who may not be medically eligible for the shot by preventing those around them from carrying the virus . this is called herd immunity .	vaccination not only benefits the person getting the vaccine . it also helps protect other people in the community who may not be medically eligible for the shot by preventing those around them from carrying the virus—this is called __________ .	vaccination not only benefits the person getting the vaccine . it also helps protect other people in the community who may not be medically eligible for the shot by preventing those around them from carrying the virus—this is called __________ .
you would then have the ability to link seemingly unrelated things , which is the definition of metaphor , seeing the similar in the dissimilar . not surprisingly , synesthesia is more common in artists who excel at making metaphors , like novelist vladimir nabokov , painter david hockney , and composers billy joel and lady gaga . but why do the rest of us non-synesthetes understand metaphors like `` sharp cheese '' or `` sweet person '' ?	synesthesia is more common in artists who excel in making metaphors .	synesthesia is more common in artists who excel in making metaphors .
so , what is the future of cities ? global population is currently more than 7 billion and is predicted to top out around 10 billion . most of this growth will occur in the urban areas of the world 's poorest countries .	experts predict that global population will top out around 10 billion people , with 7 billion of those people living in cities . what are some of the opportunities and challenges that cities will face as the population increases ?	experts predict that global population will top out around 10 billion people , with 7 billion of those people living in cities . what are some of the opportunities and challenges that cities will face as the population increases ?
so , what is the future of cities ? global population is currently more than 7 billion and is predicted to top out around 10 billion . most of this growth will occur in the urban areas of the world 's poorest countries .	global population is expected to top out at _______ billion people .	global population is expected to top out at _______ billion people .
well-arranged ecm allows for transportation of nutrients , cell-to-cell communication , and cell adhesion . but when a deep wound occurs , this arrangement is disrupted . during the process of wound healing , collagen is redeposited at the wound site , but instead of the basket-weave formation found in healthy tissue , the new ecm is aligned in a single direction , impeding inter-cell processes , and reducing durability and elasticity . to make matters worse , the healed tissue contains a higher proportion of ecm than before , reducing its overall function .	what happens to the alignment of collagen deposited during the wound healing process ?	what happens to the alignment of collagen deposited during the wound healing process ?
diabetes mellitus has been a scourge of the developed world with an estimated 400,000,000 people worldwide suffering from this disease , and 50 % more predicted within twenty years . its early symptoms , which include increased thirst and large volumes of urine , were recognized as far back as 1500 bce in egypt .	diabetes mellitus is expected to increase ____ in human patients in the next 20 years .	diabetes mellitus is expected to increase ____ in human patients in the next 20 years .
many discoveries await us if we can save the frogs , but when a frog species disappears , so does any promise it holds for improving human health . fortunately , there are lots of ways you can help , and the best place to start is by improving your ecological footprint and day-to-day actions . the next time you listen to that nighttime lullaby , do n't think of it as just another background noise , hear it as a call for help , sung in perfect croaking harmony .	a person ’ s ecological footprint is the total impact that person has on the planet . what are some ways that your daily habits may affect the environment ? what are some simple changes you can make to be more environmentally friendly ?	a person ’ s ecological footprint is the total impact that person has on the planet . what are some ways that your daily habits may affect the environment ? what are some simple changes you can make to be more environmentally friendly ?
there 's one other trick , though : holding the crust , you can sort of fold the slice down the middle . now the tip of the pizza is n't falling over , and you can eat it without getting tomato sauce all over yourself or accidentally biting off some of that paper plate . but why should the tip stay up just because you bent the crust ?	to help understand why bending your pizza stops the tip from falling down , this lesson discussed	to help understand why bending your pizza stops the tip from falling down , this lesson discussed
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar most people have heard the word `` gerrymandering '' once or twice , probably during a presidential election . what exactly is gerrymandering ? essentially , it 's the process of giving one political party an advantage over another political party by redrawing district lines . it 's like democrats trying to gain an advantage over republicans , or republicans trying to gain an advantage over democrats .	what are other political practices with funny names ( like gerrymandering ) ? how did they get their name , and what do they mean ?	what are other political practices with funny names ( like gerrymandering ) ? how did they get their name , and what do they mean ?
on september 6 , 1522 , the `` victoria '' sailed into harbor in southern spain . the battered vessel and its 18 sailors were all that remained of a fleet that had departed three years before .	which of the assertions below is false ?	which of the assertions below is false ?
no , i used to do lots of chemistry with boron , i kind of moved away a little bit from boron now but i really like it . boron is an interesting element . it is one of the few that i have actually made myself when i was at school .	there are several allotropes of boron ; debbie , who loves this element , presents two of them . the amorphous form of boron is a brown powder , and the crystalline form of boron , the black form , has an important property . what is this property ?	there are several allotropes of boron ; debbie , who loves this element , presents two of them . the amorphous form of boron is a brown powder , and the crystalline form of boron , the black form , has an important property . what is this property ?
no , i used to do lots of chemistry with boron , i kind of moved away a little bit from boron now but i really like it . boron is an interesting element . it is one of the few that i have actually made myself when i was at school .	if you are going to travel to california don ’ t forget to visit boron . why is there a town with the same name as that of a chemical element ?	if you are going to travel to california don ’ t forget to visit boron . why is there a town with the same name as that of a chemical element ?
so , on december 6 , 1957 , excited people across the nation tuned in to watch the live broadcast as the vanguard tv3 satellite took off and crashed to the ground two seconds later . the vanguard failure was a huge embarassment for the united states . newspapers printed headlines like , `` flopnik '' and `` kaputnik . ''	who was the president of the united states during the sputnik launch ?	who was the president of the united states during the sputnik launch ?
if there are many ants in a small area this will happen more often causing them to respond by moving in more convoluted , random paths in order to search more thoroughly . but in a larger area , with less ants , where such meetings happen less often , they can walk in straight lines to cover more ground . while exploring their environment in this way , an ant may come across any number of things , from threats or enemies , to alternate nesting sites .	how should ants move to cover as much area as possible when they are searching ?	how should ants move to cover as much area as possible when they are searching ?
it may be easier to blame sleep paralysis on evil spirits because what 's actually happening in your brain is much harder to explain . modern scientists believe that sleep paralysis is caused by an abnormal overlap of the rem , rapid eye movement , and waking stages of sleep . during a normal rem cycle , you 're experiencing a number of sensory stimuli in the form of a dream , and your brain is unconscious and fully asleep .	scientists think sleep paralysis is caused by an overlap of what two stages of sleep ?	scientists think sleep paralysis is caused by an overlap of what two stages of sleep ?
what could be hidden up there ? by the time stephen was in college , that curiosity pulled him skyward to the tallest trees on earth : the ancient coast redwoods of northern california . rising from trunks up to 20 feet in diameter , redwoods can grow up to 380 feet , or 38 stories , over a 2,000 year lifetime . but no one had thought to investigate the crowns of these natural skyscrapers .	ancient coast redwoods can grow up to ______ feet and live for ______ years .	ancient coast redwoods can grow up to ______ feet and live for ______ years .
it seems like you 're out of luck , unless you look at the rules carefully and notice an important exception . it 's true that once you activate the switch in a contaminated room , it 's destroyed and you can never go back . but there 's one room that was n't contaminated - the entrance .	why are you allowed to go back into the first room ?	why are you allowed to go back into the first room ?
what have they done to abe ? those are just three optical illusions , images that seem to trick us . how do they work ?	if all these assumptions sometimes lead to mistakes , for example in these optical illusions , why do we make them ?	if all these assumptions sometimes lead to mistakes , for example in these optical illusions , why do we make them ?
millions of babies , like louise brown , have been born from ivf and have had normal , healthy lives . the long-term health consequences of ovarian stimulation with ivf medicines are less clear , though so far , ivf seems safe for women . because of better genetic testing , delayed childbearing , increased accessibility and diminishing cost , it 's not inconceivable that artificial baby making via ivf and related techniques could outpace natural reproduction in years to come .	for women younger than 35 years old , ivf success rates have been reported to be :	for women younger than 35 years old , ivf success rates have been reported to be :
then , look at the second and third books , repeat the process , and continue until you reach the end of the line . at some point , you 'll come across the book that should be last , and keep swapping it with every subsequent book , moving it down the line until it reaches the end where it belongs . then , start from the beginning and repeat the process to get the second to last book in its proper place , and keep going until all books are sorted .	in which sorting algorithm did we come across the book that should be last in line , and then keep comparing that book with each subsequent book until we reach the end of the line ?	in which sorting algorithm did we come across the book that should be last in line , and then keep comparing that book with each subsequent book until we reach the end of the line ?
it actually all starts with the air you are exhaling this very minute , specifically the carbon dioxide molecules . plants are going to breath in this very same carbon dioxide through pores in their skin , called stomata . plants drink in water from their roots to get the needed oxygen and hydrogen atoms , and their electrons , in order to build carbohydrates .	what are the pores in a plant 's skin called ?	what are the pores in a plant 's skin called ?
it actually all starts with the air you are exhaling this very minute , specifically the carbon dioxide molecules . plants are going to breath in this very same carbon dioxide through pores in their skin , called stomata . plants drink in water from their roots to get the needed oxygen and hydrogen atoms , and their electrons , in order to build carbohydrates .	the sun helps plants transform carbon dioxide into a simple carbohydrate called :	the sun helps plants transform carbon dioxide into a simple carbohydrate called :
by the mid-1970s , supersonic planes were ready for commercial use -- with the uk and france designing the concorde , and the soviet union designing the tupolev . the concorde flew passengers from london to new york in about three and a half hours -- about half the time it would take in a plain old subsonic commercial plane . but they only flew that one route , and there ’ s a reason they spent as much time over the water as possible : the painfully disruptive sonic boom .	name three reasons the concorde was retired .	name three reasons the concorde was retired .
by combining physical principles worked out by sir isaac newton in the late 17th century , with the observed amount of mass in a galaxy , scientists can calculate the rates at which these galaxies rotate . using these techniques , astronomers predict how fast stars at different distances from the center of the galaxy should move . stars very close to the center move slowly . that 's because there is very little mass between them and the center of the galaxy to pull them along .	stars at which distance from the center of the galaxy move the fastest ?	stars at which distance from the center of the galaxy move the fastest ?
you just have to be a participant and to live like a citizen . the spirit of protest is powerful . so is showing up after the protest .	which of the following is not something that protest alone can achieve ?	which of the following is not something that protest alone can achieve ?
martin did write his first novel about a planet falling away from its parent star . it 's most likely that the game of thrones planet . .	why would n't a super elongated ellipse account for the longer and unpredictable seasons on the game of thrones planet ?	why would n't a super elongated ellipse account for the longer and unpredictable seasons on the game of thrones planet ?
martin did write his first novel about a planet falling away from its parent star . it 's most likely that the game of thrones planet . .	which of the following from game of thrones has a real earth equivalent ?	which of the following from game of thrones has a real earth equivalent ?
keeping your muscles and joints moving is extremely important . in fact , being stationary for long periods with good posture can be worse than regular movement with bad posture . when you do move , move smartly .	which of the following professions may help you if you have bad posture ?	which of the following professions may help you if you have bad posture ?
keeping your muscles and joints moving is extremely important . in fact , being stationary for long periods with good posture can be worse than regular movement with bad posture . when you do move , move smartly .	discuss which factors need to be corrected in your daily life to obtain better posture .	discuss which factors need to be corrected in your daily life to obtain better posture .
jefferson only reluctantly agreed to support it when his friend , james madison , promised to propose a bill of rights after it was ratified . but jefferson 's fears about big government did not go away . for example , secretary of the treasury , alexander hamilton , proposed a national bank in 1790 , and jefferson knew there was no provision in the constitution to permit such a thing . hamilton claimed some sort of implied powers mumbo-jumbo .	in 1790 , thomas jefferson opposed the creation of the national bank because	in 1790 , thomas jefferson opposed the creation of the national bank because
but comparative linguistics can help us by focusing on grammatical structure , patterns of sound changes , and certain core vocabulary . for example , after the 6th century , german words starting with `` p , '' systematically shifted to a `` pf '' sound while their old english counterparts kept the `` p '' unchanged . in another split , words that have `` sk '' sounds in swedish developed an `` sh '' sound in english . there are still some english words with `` sk , '' like `` skirt , '' and `` skull , '' but they 're direct borrowings from old norse that came after the `` sk '' to `` sh '' shift .	words that start with a `` pf '' sound in german start with _____ in english .	words that start with a `` pf '' sound in german start with _____ in english .
ok , one more thing , if i can even get more bizarre . since virtually all the mass of an atom is in the nucleus -- now , there is some amount of mass in the electrons , but most of it is in the nucleus -- how dense is the nucleus ? well , the answer is crazy .	what is in between the nucleus and the electrons in an atom ?	what is in between the nucleus and the electrons in an atom ?
turns out to be a terrible military strategy not to have any weapons , and it ’ s possible people from the indus valley were completely overrun by people from the caucasus . two : environmental disaster ! it ’ s possible they brought about their own end by destroying their environment .	what are the names of the two major rivers ?	what are the names of the two major rivers ?
mysteries of vernacular : quarantine , a state , period , or place of strict isolation meant to prevent the spread of disease . in the 14th century , the bubonic plague , later called `` the black death , '' spread across europe with devastating consequences . it 's been estimated that the plague decimated at least one-third of europe 's population . in a vain effort to stave off infection , the italian-speaking port city of ragusa , in what is now croatia , mandated that ships arriving from plague-infested areas remain isolated on the water until it was deemed likely that they were n't carrying a disease .	what caused the initial outbreak of the plague ?	what caused the initial outbreak of the plague ?
but there 's still a lot we do n't know about this little patch of cells , too . for example , our olfactory epithelium is pigmented , and scientists do n't really know why . but how do you actually tell the difference between smells ?	scientists do n't know why , but what do you think is a possible reason our olfactory epithelium is pigmented ?	scientists do n't know why , but what do you think is a possible reason our olfactory epithelium is pigmented ?
that means you do n't have to cool it down as fast , so the material can be thicker , centimeters instead of micrometers . these materials are called bulk metallic glasses , or bmgs . now there are hundreds of different bmgs , so why are n't all of our bridges and cars made out of them ?	how did materials scientists manage to produce bulk metallic glasses ?	how did materials scientists manage to produce bulk metallic glasses ?
that means you do n't have to cool it down as fast , so the material can be thicker , centimeters instead of micrometers . these materials are called bulk metallic glasses , or bmgs . now there are hundreds of different bmgs , so why are n't all of our bridges and cars made out of them ?	what are some of the impressive properties of bulk metallic glasses ?	what are some of the impressive properties of bulk metallic glasses ?
and so it reacts with oxygen very rapidly and heats up and bursts into flame . the point about cerium is that very small particles of cerium oxide are now becoming quite important in various areas of technology . there ’ s a company , or several companies , that are using nano particles of cerium oxide as an additive for fuels to make a particular diesel fuel to try and make it burn better and give more power when you are driving diesel cars .	what is the origin of the name cerium ?	what is the origin of the name cerium ?
there 's a job out there with a great deal of power , pay , prestige , and near-perfect job security . and there 's only one way to be hired : get appointed to the us supreme court . if you want to become a justice on the supreme court , the highest federal court in the united states , three things have to happen .	should the us constitution be amended to limit the number of years a us supreme court justice can serve ? today , us supreme court justices can serve for life . do you agree with this ?	should the us constitution be amended to limit the number of years a us supreme court justice can serve ? today , us supreme court justices can serve for life . do you agree with this ?
it took until 1988 for the us government to acknowledge the injustice of its internment camps and approve reparations payments to survivors . for harry , though , his greatest regret was not having the courage to thank his japanese grand uncle who had taught him so much . the story of the akune brothers is many things : a family divided by circumstance , the unjust treatment of japanese americans , and the personal struggle of reconciling two national identities .	harry akune tearfully regretted not having the courage to thank his grand-uncle after the war . what did the grand-uncle do for harry ?	harry akune tearfully regretted not having the courage to thank his grand-uncle after the war . what did the grand-uncle do for harry ?
woodwinds have air blown against a reed or sharp edge . for brass instruments , however , the vibration come directly from the musician 's mouth . one of the first things a brass player must learn is to breathe in deeply , until every possible particle of air is crammed into the lungs .	brass instruments create vibration from _____ .	brass instruments create vibration from _____ .
woodwinds have air blown against a reed or sharp edge . for brass instruments , however , the vibration come directly from the musician 's mouth . one of the first things a brass player must learn is to breathe in deeply , until every possible particle of air is crammed into the lungs .	explain how a brass musician can create various pitches with his/her instrument .	explain how a brass musician can create various pitches with his/her instrument .
they do n't work . ideas for perpetual motion machines all violate one or more fundamental laws of thermodynamics , the branch of physics that describes the relationship between different forms of energy . the first law of thermodynamics says that energy ca n't be created or destroyed . you ca n't get out more energy than you put in .	which of the laws of thermodynamics imposes a greater obstacle to the successful achievement of perpetual motion machines , and why : the first ( energy can not be created or destroyed ) or the second ( energy tends to `` leech out '' of systems ) ?	which of the laws of thermodynamics imposes a greater obstacle to the successful achievement of perpetual motion machines , and why : the first ( energy can not be created or destroyed ) or the second ( energy tends to `` leech out '' of systems ) ?
it 's involved in every physical interaction you do every day , every manipulation task , anything you do in the world . so the sense of touch is actually pretty interesting . it has two main components .	what would change about your life if you lost the sense of touch ?	what would change about your life if you lost the sense of touch ?
well , that 's another quirk of our model of the electron . past a certain distance from the nucleus , the probability of finding an electron starts to decrease more or less exponentially , which means that while it will approach zero , it 'll never actually hit zero . so , in every atom , there is some small , but non-zero , probability that for a very , very short period of time , one of its electrons is at the other end of the known universe .	past a certain distance from the nucleus , the probability of finding an electron starts to decrease more or less exponentially . how would you represent this on a graph ? draw a quick sketch and label the axes . how would you account for the “ past a certain distance from the nucleus ” part of the question in your sketch ?	past a certain distance from the nucleus , the probability of finding an electron starts to decrease more or less exponentially . how would you represent this on a graph ? draw a quick sketch and label the axes . how would you account for the “ past a certain distance from the nucleus ” part of the question in your sketch ?
ok , fermium , it has absolutely no use as far as anyone knows except that it ’ s extremely radioactive . it ’ s named after enrico fermi who is a well-known physicist .	as explained by steve , what is the main use of fermium ?	as explained by steve , what is the main use of fermium ?
together , these changes increase your chances of a heart attack or stroke . when your brain senses stress , it activates your autonomic nervous system . through this network of nerve connections , your big brain communicates stress to your enteric , or intestinal nervous system . besides causing butterflies in your stomach , this brain-gut connection can disturb the natural rhythmic contractions that move food through your gut , leading to irritable bowel syndrome , and can increase your gut sensitivity to acid , making you more likely to feel heartburn .	through the enteric nervous system , stress causes :	through the enteric nervous system , stress causes :
the discovery of its intact cargo and a captain 's log that ended abruptly led to wild rumors and speculation . but the real culprits were two scientific phenomena : buoyancy and fluid dynamics . here 's how buoyancy works .	many events that appear supernatural have natural explanations . can you think of a natural explanation for phenomena at sea that have the appearance of the supernatural such as mermaids , mirages , and sea monsters ? can you think of some other examples of strange phenomena ?	many events that appear supernatural have natural explanations . can you think of a natural explanation for phenomena at sea that have the appearance of the supernatural such as mermaids , mirages , and sea monsters ? can you think of some other examples of strange phenomena ?
another piece of his purely theoretical work became known as the hardy-weinberg law in genetics , and won a nobel prize . and fibonacci stumbled upon his famous sequence while looking at the growth of an idealized rabbit population . mankind later found the sequence everywhere in nature , from sunflower seeds and flower petal arrangements , to the structure of a pineapple , even the branching of bronchi in the lungs .	the fibonacci sequence is perhaps best known from its appearance in the novel and movie `` the da vinci code . '' what are some of the real world applications of this famous sequence ?	the fibonacci sequence is perhaps best known from its appearance in the novel and movie `` the da vinci code . '' what are some of the real world applications of this famous sequence ?
many of the bmgs currently available are made from expensive metals , like palladium and zirconium , and they have to be really pure because any impurities can cause crystallization . so a bmg skyscraper or space shuttle would be astronomically expensive . and despite their strength , they 're not yet tough enough for load-bearing applications .	what advantage does a bmg golf club head have over its traditional counterpart ?	what advantage does a bmg golf club head have over its traditional counterpart ?
the ability to amplify signals also made the triode crucial for radio and long distance communication . but despite these advancements , vacuum tubes were unreliable and bulky . with 18,000 triodes , eniac was nearly the size of a tennis court and weighed 30 tons .	why were vacuum tubes discarded ?	why were vacuum tubes discarded ?
it ’ s used in , of all things , lighting in hollywood studios . lanthanum can also be used in hydrogen storage though obviously the hydrogen economy is becoming a very important issue with the energy crisis and so on and so forth ; and it ’ s , in certain circumstances , it ’ s very effective as what we called a hydrogen sponge so it can suck up all of the hydrogen and then hopefully you could use it as a fuel source . but because it ’ s quite heavy it might not be actually that useful in the end , but it ’ s good to know that it can do that .	how could lanthanum be important in helping to solve the energy crisis ?	how could lanthanum be important in helping to solve the energy crisis ?
so on august 21 , 2017 , when the moon exactly lines up with the sun and the moon is close enough to the earth , its shadow will cross the u.s. and , if you happen to be in its narrow path , you will witness one of the most awe-inspiring sights in the universe . but , as incredible as this event will be , total eclipses are one of the most dangerous as well . only specially tinted filters , specifically designed to observe the sun , should be used .	why are total solar eclipses so dangerous ?	why are total solar eclipses so dangerous ?
if they flew over land , odds are people would not have appreciated the booms . and even though you can ’ t fly on a concorde anymore , you might still be able to fly on a supersonic plane someday . nasa , for example , is looking into how to dampen the effects of the sonic boom .	why did the concorde jet fly mostly over the ocean ?	why did the concorde jet fly mostly over the ocean ?
( destin ) really ? so the mantis shrimp is.. it 's a peacock mantis shrimp . - yep .	how does the hyperbolic parabaloid , located on the top of the mantis shrimp 's arm , help create its strong punches ?	how does the hyperbolic parabaloid , located on the top of the mantis shrimp 's arm , help create its strong punches ?
( destin ) really ? so the mantis shrimp is.. it 's a peacock mantis shrimp . - yep .	the mantis shrimp is not actually a shrimp , but a stomatopod . how did it get its name ?	the mantis shrimp is not actually a shrimp , but a stomatopod . how did it get its name ?
( destin ) really ? so the mantis shrimp is.. it 's a peacock mantis shrimp . - yep .	how is the mantis shrimp able to to break strong shells and not damage itself ?	how is the mantis shrimp able to to break strong shells and not damage itself ?
that 's three degrees of freedom . it can also rotate around any of these three axes . that 's three more , unless it 's a linear molecule , like carbon dioxide .	the movement of any given molecule around its axes is known as :	the movement of any given molecule around its axes is known as :
we are here in the basement of the royal society in london , the royal society is the uk national academy for sciences and we are here because there is an exhibition about rutherford . we are interested in the element rutherfordium which is right here at the bottom of the periodic table number 104 , and with these elements only tiny amounts , relatively few atoms have been made so we can ’ t tell you about how it is used in light bulbs or something like that because it has not been used for anything . people are really excited if they make one or two atoms of it .	does rutherfordium have any applications in our daily lives ?	does rutherfordium have any applications in our daily lives ?
the speed of light remained the same no matter what the earth was doing . two decades later , albert einstein was thinking about the consequences of that never-changing speed of light . and it was his conclusions , formulated in the theory of special relativity , that opened the door into the world of time travel .	in which theory does albert einstein put forward his ideas on the nature of time ?	in which theory does albert einstein put forward his ideas on the nature of time ?
a million kernels of corn is about 1,250 ears , so one kernel in that truckload would be one part per million . there are 10 million bricks in the empire state building , so one part per million would be a pile of just ten . and finally , 100 people worked together to animate this video .	right now the amount of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere is approximately 400 parts per million . how many bricks would this be in the empire state building ?	right now the amount of carbon dioxide in our atmosphere is approximately 400 parts per million . how many bricks would this be in the empire state building ?
today , surfing is a multi-billion dollar global industry , with tens of millions of enthusiasts worldwide . and though relatively few of these surfers are aware of the once-crucial wave chants or board carving rituals , hawaiians continue to preserve these traditions nearly washed away by history 's waves .	which of the following was a type of board used by hawaiians for riding waves ?	which of the following was a type of board used by hawaiians for riding waves ?
however , prolonged exposure to uva and uvb can damage dna , age your skin , and promote the development of potentially deadly skin cancer . sunscreen protects your skin either physically by deflecting uv rays with an inorganic blocker like zinc oxide or titanium dioxide , or chemically by using carbon-based compounds to absorb uv photons that are then harmlessly dissipated as heat . so , what differentiates one sunscreen from another ? when we choose a sunscreen , we can compare application method , the spf , and the active ingredients . sprays can be convenient to put on , especially when you 're wet , but a recent study found that most people do n't apply a thick enough layer to get full protection .	which of the follow sunscreen ingredients are considered inorganic physical blockers ?	which of the follow sunscreen ingredients are considered inorganic physical blockers ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar literary critic northrop frye once observed that in our primitive days , our literary heroes were -- well , nearly gods , and as civilization advanced , they came down the mountain of the gods , so to speak , and became more human , more flawed , less heroic . from the divine heroes like hercules , down the mountain below the miraculous but mortal heroes such as beowulf , the great leaders such as king arthur , and the great but flawed heroes like macbeth or othello . below even the unlikely but eventual heroes such as harry potter , luke skywalker , or hiccup , until we reach the bottom and meet the anti-hero .	explain why antiheroes are more relatable than the heroes of ancient literature ( like hercules or beowulf ) ?	explain why antiheroes are more relatable than the heroes of ancient literature ( like hercules or beowulf ) ?
four : we 're free to dismantle capitalism . the one factor that most discourages people from experiencing themselves as free is money . most of us will shut down a range of possible options ( moving abroad , trying out a new career , leaving a partner ) by saying , ‘ that ’ s if i didn ’ t have to worry about money . '	what does sartre believe is one factor that keeps many people from experiencing their full range of possibilities ?	what does sartre believe is one factor that keeps many people from experiencing their full range of possibilities ?
so i 'm here today to encourage you to think about new york city , and not just as one of humanity 's greatest achievements , but as home to native wildlife that are subject to a grand evolutionary experiment . so take this forested hillside in northern manhattan , for example . this is one of the last areas left in the city where there 's clean spring water seeping out of the ground .	when two bridges were built on a hillside in northern manhattan , what happened to the northern dusky salamanders that lived there ?	when two bridges were built on a hillside in northern manhattan , what happened to the northern dusky salamanders that lived there ?
the fact that it was really very poisonous and caused , possibly even caused madness , was not really widely recognised . in fact some people have suggested that part of the collapse of the roman empire was due to too much lead . lead was very widely used in the uk for water pipes because it ’ s easy to manufacture and to join together . it tends not to have been very dangerous in terms of drinking water because it gets a coating on the surface so you do not get much lead in the water ; though if you do have a house with lead pipes in , it is usually advisable to change them .	up until the 1980s , before being prohibited due to its contamination of the environment , where was lead widely used ?	up until the 1980s , before being prohibited due to its contamination of the environment , where was lead widely used ?
it was n't until around 1400 that people began to draw a line between art and craft . in florence , italy , a new cultural ideal that would later be called renaissance humanism was beginning to take form . florentine intellectuals began to spread the idea of reformulating classical greek and roman works , while placing greater value on individual creativity than collective production .	before the renaissance , there was no concept of ________ .	before the renaissance , there was no concept of ________ .
but the stories of its words often start long before english itself took root . one such word is the familiar word true , as in true stories . let 's take a look .	the word true can mean `` faithful '' of `` factual , '' but both of these meanings carry a sense of reliability , steadfastness . think of three or four phrases that use the word true or its derivatives -- like tried and true or the truth will out ( or others ) -- and consider what true means in those phrases . what is the common thread among their various meanings ?	the word true can mean `` faithful '' of `` factual , '' but both of these meanings carry a sense of reliability , steadfastness . think of three or four phrases that use the word true or its derivatives -- like tried and true or the truth will out ( or others ) -- and consider what true means in those phrases . what is the common thread among their various meanings ?
and that 's how we create the shapes of our charcters . but remember , i said a moment ago it 's not enough just to know the static shape , the fixed shape . we need to animate it .	to make a shape three times bigger ( an operation called scaling ) , what has to happen to the x and y coordinates of the shape ?	to make a shape three times bigger ( an operation called scaling ) , what has to happen to the x and y coordinates of the shape ?
human ones weigh 1.5 kilograms , elephant brains 5 kg , and whale brains 9 kg , yet on a per weight basis , humans pack in more neurons than any other species . this dense packing is what makes us so smart . there is a trade-off between body size and the number of neurons a primate , including us , can sustain .	the spiny anteater , echidna , has massive frontal lobes but isn ’ t very smart . if our frontal lobes were proportionally as large , we ’ d have to carry them in front of us in a wheelbarrow . if relative brain size doesn ’ t make us smarter than mammals that have much larger brains than we do—a point that has been argued for well over the past century—then what factor ( s ) might account for our relatively superior intelligence and flexibility ?	the spiny anteater , echidna , has massive frontal lobes but isn ’ t very smart . if our frontal lobes were proportionally as large , we ’ d have to carry them in front of us in a wheelbarrow . if relative brain size doesn ’ t make us smarter than mammals that have much larger brains than we do—a point that has been argued for well over the past century—then what factor ( s ) might account for our relatively superior intelligence and flexibility ?
the brain is made up of billions of neurons , and trillions of connections . neurons can be activated by specific stimuli or thoughts , but they are also often spontaneously active . some fire cyclically in a set pattern .	the activity of neurons can be produced by specific events , such as a light or sound , but can also occur spontaneously .	the activity of neurons can be produced by specific events , such as a light or sound , but can also occur spontaneously .
so , our hero swoops in at super speed , grabs her , and carries her to safety . that sounds very romantic , but , in reality , that girl will probably suffer more damage from the hero than the bullet if he moved her at super speed . newton 's first law of motion deals with inertia , which is the resistance to a change in its state of motion .	if a superhero moved a girl away from a bullet at super speed , what scenario would most likely take place ?	if a superhero moved a girl away from a bullet at super speed , what scenario would most likely take place ?
well , just follow your passion on the side . remember , albert einstein was a patent clerk . that was his job , but his passion was physics .	hobbies and interests are the starting points for passion . an example provided is albert einstein . he was a patent clerk , but his hobby was physics , and he loved physics so much he did it for free . 1 ) write down your hobbies and interests . 2 ) what do you love doing so much that you ’ d do it for free ? write down what you love about it . don ’ t have any passions ? no problem . keep looking .	hobbies and interests are the starting points for passion . an example provided is albert einstein . he was a patent clerk , but his hobby was physics , and he loved physics so much he did it for free . 1 ) write down your hobbies and interests . 2 ) what do you love doing so much that you ’ d do it for free ? write down what you love about it . don ’ t have any passions ? no problem . keep looking .
electrons are moving around all the time and can easily relocate to wherever they 're wanted most . so when there are atoms with different electronegativities in the same molecule , the molecules cloud of electrons gets pulled towards the more electronegative atom . that creates a thin spot in the electron cloud where positive charge from the atomic nuclei shines through , as well as a negatively charged lump of electrons somewhere else .	in a molecule where one atom is more electronegative than the other , the electrons will tend to be _____ .	in a molecule where one atom is more electronegative than the other , the electrons will tend to be _____ .
take the belief that you are valuable , worthwhile , and capable , also known as self-esteem , add in the optimism that comes when you are certain of your abilities , and then empowered by these , act courageously to face a challenge head-on . this is confidence . it turns thoughts into action .	a person 's confidence level is impacted by :	a person 's confidence level is impacted by :
take the belief that you are valuable , worthwhile , and capable , also known as self-esteem , add in the optimism that comes when you are certain of your abilities , and then empowered by these , act courageously to face a challenge head-on . this is confidence . it turns thoughts into action .	the best way to increase your confidence after you have failed at something is to :	the best way to increase your confidence after you have failed at something is to :
take the belief that you are valuable , worthwhile , and capable , also known as self-esteem , add in the optimism that comes when you are certain of your abilities , and then empowered by these , act courageously to face a challenge head-on . this is confidence . it turns thoughts into action .	it seems counterintuitive that persistence in response to failure could actually increase a person 's confidence level . explain why the opposite is true .	it seems counterintuitive that persistence in response to failure could actually increase a person 's confidence level . explain why the opposite is true .
an unreliable thermometer gives you a different reading each time you take your temperature , and the reliable but invalid thermometer is consistently ten degrees too hot . validity also depends on accurate interpretations of results . if people say results of a test mean something they do n't , that test may have a validity problem . just as we would n't expect a ruler to tell us how much an elephant weighs , or what it had for breakfast , we ca n't expect standardized tests alone to reliably tell us how smart someone is , how diplomats will handle a tough situation , or how brave a firefighter might turn out to be .	if a scale provides unreliable results , which of the following is possible ?	if a scale provides unreliable results , which of the following is possible ?
so it 's a metal , so it 's a conductor . but when you push it under extreme pressure , say 14,000 atmospheres of pressure , it becomes a semiconductor . and that semi conductor ability changes as a function of temperature so it 's used as a pressure sensor in extreme environments .	ytterbium properties change as a function of pressure . under extreme pressure , about 14000 atm , it becomes a …	ytterbium properties change as a function of pressure . under extreme pressure , about 14000 atm , it becomes a …
that 's what makes good bbq so tender inside . it 's meat jell-o . bbq cuts also have a good amount of fat .	why does meat brown as it cooks ? why does this make the meat taste so delicious ?	why does meat brown as it cooks ? why does this make the meat taste so delicious ?
that 's what makes good bbq so tender inside . it 's meat jell-o . bbq cuts also have a good amount of fat .	what are two largest components of meat ?	what are two largest components of meat ?
by understanding these codes , and how they work together to subconsciously change the way you think , feel and act towards products and ideas , you 'll be aware of these techniques and able to identify their impact on you . one of the most powerful advertising mediums in the world is word of mouth . if you 've ever recommended a product or movie , a service , or even a video online , then you 've played your part in passing the message .	according to beaton , one of the most powerful advertising mediums in the world is :	according to beaton , one of the most powerful advertising mediums in the world is :
the pythagoreans of 5th century greece believed numbers were both living entities and universal principles . they called the number one , `` the monad , '' the generator of all other numbers and source of all creation . numbers were active agents in nature .	what special name did the pythagoreans give to the number 1 , the source of all creation ?	what special name did the pythagoreans give to the number 1 , the source of all creation ?
if you were given the choice to sign up for that kind of existence , would you ? that 's the question philosopher robert nozick posed through a thought experiment he called the experience machine . the experiment asks us to consider a world in which scientists have developed a machine that would simulate real life while guaranteeing experiences of only pleasure and never pain .	which philosopher posed the experience machine thought experiment ?	which philosopher posed the experience machine thought experiment ?
if you were given the choice to sign up for that kind of existence , would you ? that 's the question philosopher robert nozick posed through a thought experiment he called the experience machine . the experiment asks us to consider a world in which scientists have developed a machine that would simulate real life while guaranteeing experiences of only pleasure and never pain .	after considering robert nozick 's experience machine thought experiment , what do you find problematic with the hedonist worldview ?	after considering robert nozick 's experience machine thought experiment , what do you find problematic with the hedonist worldview ?
the shape is an ellipse , and ellipses are an interesting type of shape , because they can come in a infinite number of varieties . the geometrical property of ellipses , which is why i made this table , is the fact that if you place a ball on a focus point ... ... where ever you hit it , in which ever direction i hit it , over there , over there , over there , over there , over here , it will always rebound into that pocket . that is because from any point on the side , it makes the same angle to each focus point . and as you know , when you rebound something against a surface ... ... the angle of incidence equals the angle of reflection .	if you place a ball on a focus point in the elliptical pool table and hit it , what will happen ? why ?	if you place a ball on a focus point in the elliptical pool table and hit it , what will happen ? why ?
it comes from what humanity already knows and it 's a necessary foundation for you guys to go and explore the world . but there is a totally different type of learning , which i call expansive learning , and this is the learning you do on behalf of humanity . right ?	what does chi call the kind of learning that you do on behalf of humanity ?	what does chi call the kind of learning that you do on behalf of humanity ?
this was widely recognized as one of the first synthetic pharmaceutical drugs . originally , aspirin was just bayer 's brand name : a for acetyl , and spir for meadowsweet , whose botanical name is spiraea ulmaria . soon , aspirin became synonymous with acetylsalicylic acid .	many pharmaceuticals have their origins in plant products . what are some other medicines that were developed or derived from a botanical source ?	many pharmaceuticals have their origins in plant products . what are some other medicines that were developed or derived from a botanical source ?
finally , in a consumer 's home , the t-shirt goes through one of the most resource-intensive phases of its lifetime . in america , for instance , the average household does nearly 400 loads of laundry per year each using about 40 gallons of water . washing machines and dryers both use energy , with dryers requiring five to six times more than washers .	if you decreased the amount of laundry loads in your household to 100 less than the average , how much water would you save per year ?	if you decreased the amount of laundry loads in your household to 100 less than the average , how much water would you save per year ?
what happens if the cars start analyzing and factoring in the passengers of the cars and the particulars of their lives ? could it be the case that a random decision is still better than a predetermined one designed to minimize harm ? and who should be making all of these decisions anyhow ?	in the second scenario , which option would follow the design principle to minimize harm ?	in the second scenario , which option would follow the design principle to minimize harm ?
this deliberate irony is an example of doublespeak , when words are used not to convey meaning but to undermine it , corrupting the very ideas they refer to . the regime 's control of language goes even further , eliminating words from the english language to create the official dialect of newspeak , a crudely limited collection of acronyms and simple concrete nouns lacking any words complex enough to encourage nuanced or critical thought . this has an effect on the psyche orwell calls , `` doublethink , '' a hypnotic state of cognitive dissonance in which one is compelled to disregard their own perception in place of the officially dictated version of events , leaving the individual completely dependent on the state 's definition of reality itself .	why does it matter who exerts control over language and information ? who stands to benefit ?	why does it matter who exerts control over language and information ? who stands to benefit ?
the elements that do not interact with other elements are easy to pin-point , while the ones who like to interact with others are difficult to find . gold , silver , and copper are some of the choosier elements so we can find them easier . so let 's fast forward to the late 1600 's where hennig brand , a german alchemist , was busy working in his laboratory .	what did hennig brand use to try to find gold ?	what did hennig brand use to try to find gold ?
grammatical tense is how languages talk about time without explicitly naming time periods by , instead , modifying verbs to specify when action occurs . so how many different tenses are there in a language like english ? at first , the answer seems obvious : there 's past , present , and future .	how many tense-aspect forms are there in english ?	how many tense-aspect forms are there in english ?
and in these bustling streets of our guts , we see a constant influx of food , and every microbe has a job to do . here 's a cellulolytic bacteria , for example . their one job is to break down cellulose , a common compound in vegetables , into sugars . those simple sugars then move along to the respirators , another set of microbes that snatch up these simple sugars and burn them as fuel .	what is a cellulolytic bateria 's one job ?	what is a cellulolytic bateria 's one job ?
but sometimes , another language has just the right word for a complex idea or emotion , like naïveté machismo , or schadenfreude . scientists also use classical languages to name new concepts . clone , for example , was derived from the ancient greek word for twig to describe creating a new plant from a piece of the old .	scientists sometimes use ______ to name a new idea .	scientists sometimes use ______ to name a new idea .
it ’ s just that the number of electrons they ’ ve got , the number of electrons they take or they get rid of , is what defines their chemistry . and is that not dangerous ? you know uranium has this reputation of being so dangerous . are you not putting us in danger by holding that there ?	why did steve say that it is very dangerous to work with and handle depleted uranium ?	why did steve say that it is very dangerous to work with and handle depleted uranium ?
for instance , since lyndon johnson , presidents have begun issuing orders to create faith-based initiatives , establish federal agencies , and remove barriers for scientific research . there are checks and balances in the u.s. political system . congress can pass laws to counteract executive orders , and judges can halt them by deeming them unconstitutional .	executive orders can be checked and balanced in the u.s. political system because :	executive orders can be checked and balanced in the u.s. political system because :
okay , what about the sun ? hollywood movies like to pick on our sun by showing earth destroyed by solar flares or the sun dying out , which would cause earth to freeze . astronomers predict our sun contains enough gas to make energy for another 3 to 5 billion years .	solar radiation can cause what is nicknamed the 'northern lights ' above north america . what is the astronomical name given to this feature ?	solar radiation can cause what is nicknamed the 'northern lights ' above north america . what is the astronomical name given to this feature ?
okay , what about the sun ? hollywood movies like to pick on our sun by showing earth destroyed by solar flares or the sun dying out , which would cause earth to freeze . astronomers predict our sun contains enough gas to make energy for another 3 to 5 billion years .	what helps protect earth from radiation caused by solar flares ?	what helps protect earth from radiation caused by solar flares ?
in comparison , cell phones and microwaves operate at the lower end of the spectrum , so there is no risk of ionizing radiation from their use . the biggest health risk occurs when lots of ionizing radiation hits us in a short time period , also known as an acute exposure . acute exposures overwhelm the body 's natural ability to repair the damage .	why is it hard for us to get a good understanding of the health impact of exposure to low levels of radiation ?	why is it hard for us to get a good understanding of the health impact of exposure to low levels of radiation ?
this results in a blind spot , where the optic nerve must pierce the retina to reach the photosensitive layer in the back . the similar looking eyes of cephalopods , which evolved independently , have a front-facing retina , allowing them to see without a blind spot . other creatures ' eyes display different adaptations .	which animal 's eye allows them to see without the blind spot ?	which animal 's eye allows them to see without the blind spot ?
and , in fact , despite being a complex emotional state that can include feelings of loss and sadness , nostalgia does n't generally put people in a negative mood . instead , by allowing individuals to remember personally meaningful and rewarding experiences they shared with others , nostalgia can boost psychological well-being . studies have shown that inducing nostalgia in people can help increase their feelings of self-esteem and social belonging , encourage psychological growth , and even make them act more charitably . so rather than being a cause of mental distress , nostalgia can be a restorative way of coping with it .	nostalgia has been shown by research to :	nostalgia has been shown by research to :
what made them computers was having a way to represent numbers and a system for manipulating them . electronic computers work the same way , but instead of physical arrangements , the numbers are represented by electric voltages . most such computers use a type of math called boolean logic that has only two possible values , the logical conditions true and false , denoted by binary digits one and zero .	how are numbers represented in a modern computer ?	how are numbers represented in a modern computer ?
his theory privileges intelligence , swiftness , and adaptability to change - all core characteristics in a hero . whether you 're reading `` harry potter '' or `` great expectations , '' you 're reading the kind of plot that inspired darwin . yet , recent studies show that his theory might not be the whole story .	do you think reading engages the imagination ? how ? are you more inclined to read fiction or non-fiction ? why ?	do you think reading engages the imagination ? how ? are you more inclined to read fiction or non-fiction ? why ?
pemdas , there is another spot ! do n't forget , there can be parentheses inside parentheses . there 's one !	there can be parentheses inside parentheses .	there can be parentheses inside parentheses .
but after falling out with the new danish king , he took up an invitation from the holy roman emperor to become the official imperial astronomer in prague . there , he met another famous astronomer johannes kepler , who became his assistant . while kepler 's work interested him , tycho was protective of his data , and the two often got into heated arguments .	brahe collaborated and sometimes quarreled with this famous astronomer :	brahe collaborated and sometimes quarreled with this famous astronomer :
so i learned it 's true , what they say : if you do what you love , the money comes anyway . so i 'd say if you really want to get rich , put money at the bottom of your goals list and passion at the top . and why does it work that way ?	how do people really get rich ?	how do people really get rich ?
on the other hand , if blood sugar is low , the pancreas releases a hormone called glucagon that tells the body 's cells and liver to release stored sugars back into the bloodstream . the interplay between insulin and glucagon is what keeps our sugar levels balanced . but a faulty pancreas can no longer coach us like this , meaning that this healthy balance is destroyed .	insulin and glucagon are responsible for :	insulin and glucagon are responsible for :
on the other hand , if blood sugar is low , the pancreas releases a hormone called glucagon that tells the body 's cells and liver to release stored sugars back into the bloodstream . the interplay between insulin and glucagon is what keeps our sugar levels balanced . but a faulty pancreas can no longer coach us like this , meaning that this healthy balance is destroyed .	what condition results when the body 's sugar levels are n't balanced ?	what condition results when the body 's sugar levels are n't balanced ?
on the other hand , if blood sugar is low , the pancreas releases a hormone called glucagon that tells the body 's cells and liver to release stored sugars back into the bloodstream . the interplay between insulin and glucagon is what keeps our sugar levels balanced . but a faulty pancreas can no longer coach us like this , meaning that this healthy balance is destroyed .	glucagon and insulin are made in _____	glucagon and insulin are made in _____
the charleston was all about improvisation and musicality , making its way into lindy hop , swing dancing and even the kid n play , originally called the funky charleston . started by a tight-knit black community near charleston , south carolina , the charleston permeated dance halls where young women suddenly had the freedom to kick their heels and move their legs . now , social dance is about community and connection ; if you knew the steps , it meant you belonged to a group .	the charleston started in a tight knit community in south carolina in the 1920 ’ s . but by the 1930 ’ s it had an impact on women everywhere . why ?	the charleston started in a tight knit community in south carolina in the 1920 ’ s . but by the 1930 ’ s it had an impact on women everywhere . why ?
of course , we 're not talking about zombies . rather , this particular opportunity came in the unlikely form of large , slow-moving fish called the coelacanth . this oddity dates back 360 million years , and was believed to have died out during the same mass extinction event that wiped out the dinosaurs 65 million years ago .	a coelacanth has ________ .	a coelacanth has ________ .
what is the difference between a theory and a law , and is one better ? scientific laws and theories have different jobs to do . a scientific law predicts the results of certain initial conditions .	which of the following best describes how theories relate to laws ?	which of the following best describes how theories relate to laws ?
in the late 1700s , just as america was getting on its feet as a republic under the new u.s constitution , slavery was a tragic american fact of life . george washington and thomas jefferson both became president while owning slaves , knowing that this peculiar institution contradicted the ideals and principles for which they fought a revolution . but both men believed that slavery was going to die out as the 19th century dawned , they were , of course , tragically mistaken .	what was the “ peculiar institution '' ?	what was the “ peculiar institution '' ?
maybe people say you 'll never amount to anything . prove them wrong . maybe your obstacle is that you have a learning disability , and people think that you 're dumb .	in his speech , steven urged the audience to “ prove others wrong ” by overcoming obstacles . what are some methods of accomplishing that ?	in his speech , steven urged the audience to “ prove others wrong ” by overcoming obstacles . what are some methods of accomplishing that ?
so how do we determine whether languages are related in the first place ? similar sounding words do n't tell us much . they could be false cognates or just directly borrowed terms rather than derived from a common root . grammar and syntax are a more reliable guide , as well as basic vocabulary , such as pronouns , numbers or kinship terms , that 's less likely to be borrowed . by systematically comparing these features and looking for regular patterns of sound changes and correspondences between languages , linguists can determine relationships , trace specific steps in their evolution and even reconstruct earlier languages with no written records .	which of these words are most likely to be borrowed from another language ?	which of these words are most likely to be borrowed from another language ?
but then , december 7 , 1941 , the attack on pearl harbor . now at war with japan , the united states government did not trust the loyalty of those citizens who had family or ancestral ties to the enemy country . in 1942 , about 120,000 japanese americans living on the west coast were stripped of their civil rights and forcibly relocated to internment camps , even though most of them , like harry and ken , were nisei , american or dual citizens who had been born in the us to japanese immigrant parents .	harry , ken and their siblings were of japanese ancestry , but were all born in the united states . they also spent part of their lives growing up in japan after their mother died . yet when war broke out between the united states and japan , harry and ken stayed in america rather than return to japan , where the rest of their family was living . why do you think they stayed ?	harry , ken and their siblings were of japanese ancestry , but were all born in the united states . they also spent part of their lives growing up in japan after their mother died . yet when war broke out between the united states and japan , harry and ken stayed in america rather than return to japan , where the rest of their family was living . why do you think they stayed ?
the non-mushy spots , like the ones you typically see on apples or tomatoes , are just on the surface and do n't usually affect flavor . of course , microbes that do make us sick , like e. coli and salmonella , can hitch a ride on vegetables , too . but because they 're not plant pathogens , they do n't typically cause spots .	you can avoid getting sick from salmonella and e. coli by :	you can avoid getting sick from salmonella and e. coli by :
remember the old-timey `` thou ? '' ironically , it was actually the informal pronoun for people you 're close with , while `` you '' was the formal and polite version . that distinction was lost when the english decided to just be polite all the time .	if your language had an informal “ you , ” which of the following people would you probably not use it with ?	if your language had an informal “ you , ” which of the following people would you probably not use it with ?
darken those corners ! dark grey fading into light grey ? assume overhead sunlight falling on a sloping curve .	improving the contrast of an image ( making the dark regions darker and the light regions lighter ) helps us to identify :	improving the contrast of an image ( making the dark regions darker and the light regions lighter ) helps us to identify :
the point is that bending a thin sheet takes a relatively small amount of force , but stretching or crumbling a thin sheet is much harder . now , finally , we get to talk about pizza . suppose you go down to the pizzeria and buy yourself a slice .	this talk presented a simplified picture of what happens when you fold a pizza . maybe too simplified : we sort of assumed that pizza slices are made of extremely flexible rubber ! to describe more accurately what happens in real life , we might want to include that	this talk presented a simplified picture of what happens when you fold a pizza . maybe too simplified : we sort of assumed that pizza slices are made of extremely flexible rubber ! to describe more accurately what happens in real life , we might want to include that
and the berlin wall 's one-sided graffiti can be seen as a striking symbol of repression versus relatively unrestricted public access . as the counterculture movements associated with graffiti become mainstream , does graffiti , too , become accepted ? since the creation of so-called graffiti unions in the 1970s and the admission of select graffiti artists into art galleries a decade later , graffiti has straddled the line between being outside and inside the mainstream .	graffiti :	graffiti :
and the berlin wall 's one-sided graffiti can be seen as a striking symbol of repression versus relatively unrestricted public access . as the counterculture movements associated with graffiti become mainstream , does graffiti , too , become accepted ? since the creation of so-called graffiti unions in the 1970s and the admission of select graffiti artists into art galleries a decade later , graffiti has straddled the line between being outside and inside the mainstream .	graffiti can both beautify and destroy . explain .	graffiti can both beautify and destroy . explain .
or thought about why it goes forward instead of backwards or sideways ? perhaps not , and you would n't be alone . it was n't until the 17th century that isaac newton described the fundamental laws of motion and we understood the answer to these three questions . what newton recognized was that things tend to keep on doing what they are already doing .	in the tour de france , bicycles are designed to be extremely light , and nearly all competitors bicycles today weigh just 6.8 kg or 15 pounds . why would it be a disadvantage for cyclists in this race to ride heavier bicycles ? use newtons laws to explain your answer .	in the tour de france , bicycles are designed to be extremely light , and nearly all competitors bicycles today weigh just 6.8 kg or 15 pounds . why would it be a disadvantage for cyclists in this race to ride heavier bicycles ? use newtons laws to explain your answer .
you ca n't get out more energy than you put in . that rules out a useful perpetual motion machine right away because a machine could only ever produce as much energy as it consumed . there would n't be any left over to power a car or charge a phone .	three out of the four people below seriously pursued ( at least for a time ) the search for a working perpetual motion machine . who 's the odd man out ?	three out of the four people below seriously pursued ( at least for a time ) the search for a working perpetual motion machine . who 's the odd man out ?
you ca n't get out more energy than you put in . that rules out a useful perpetual motion machine right away because a machine could only ever produce as much energy as it consumed . there would n't be any left over to power a car or charge a phone .	which of the following correctly describes a perpetual motion machine ?	which of the following correctly describes a perpetual motion machine ?
you ca n't get out more energy than you put in . that rules out a useful perpetual motion machine right away because a machine could only ever produce as much energy as it consumed . there would n't be any left over to power a car or charge a phone .	how might you prove a machine is a perpetual motion machine without running it until the end of time ?	how might you prove a machine is a perpetual motion machine without running it until the end of time ?
you have to know what to ask of whom . first you need to understand that every piece of journalism requires a trifecta of sourcing . if you picture the reporting process as depicted by a triangle , one side will be official sources , another side will be overview sources , and a third side will be unofficial sources .	the trifecta of sourcing that journalists use in the reporting process refers to :	the trifecta of sourcing that journalists use in the reporting process refers to :
so , the next time you look out your window and notice what season it is , you may be fooled by those blooming trees . think of phenology , then think of how you can play a part to slow climate change .	how deeply do you think your carbon footprint affects phenology ?	how deeply do you think your carbon footprint affects phenology ?
in theory you can take a piece of magnesium , set fire to it in air so its burning well and then plunge it into nitrogen gas , and it should continue burning . i have tried this experiment lots of times and it ’ s never worked . in fact for 25 years i demonstrated this experiment to my lecture class when i was talking about nitrogen , and every time , it didn ’ t work , and the students thought , the poor professor , he has been made a fool of , it hasn ’ t worked and they didn ’ t know that it never worked and i would have been more surprised if it had done , but it taught them a bit about the chemistry of nitrogen and magnesium .	what is the experiment that never works in the professor´s lectures ?	what is the experiment that never works in the professor´s lectures ?
and here 's another trick : you do n't need that kitchen timer ; your nose is a sensitive scientific instrument . when you smell the nutty , toasty aromas of the maillard reaction and caramelization , your cookies are ready . grab your glass of milk , put your feet up , and reflect that science can be pretty sweet .	can you think of other dishes you cook that involve the maillard reaction ? what about caramelization ?	can you think of other dishes you cook that involve the maillard reaction ? what about caramelization ?
so you can give your nose a rest and sniff again later . finally , dwell on the smell . most smells pass by us with little attention , but simply noticing what you 're smelling and by trying to describe it , name it , and locate its source , you can expand your vocabulary of smells .	for most people , what we tend to smell is :	for most people , what we tend to smell is :
so you can give your nose a rest and sniff again later . finally , dwell on the smell . most smells pass by us with little attention , but simply noticing what you 're smelling and by trying to describe it , name it , and locate its source , you can expand your vocabulary of smells .	you come into a friend ’ s home and detect the most wonderful smell you have ever encountered . you want to remember that smell forever so you “ dwell on the smell. ” describe what happens in your brain as a result .	you come into a friend ’ s home and detect the most wonderful smell you have ever encountered . you want to remember that smell forever so you “ dwell on the smell. ” describe what happens in your brain as a result .
whale songs are one of the most sophisticated communication systems in the animal kingdom . only a few species are known to sing . blue , fin , bowhead minke whales , and of course humpback whales . these are all baleen whales which use hairy baleen plates instead of teeth to trap their prey .	scientists believe whales produce song by vibrating a flap of tissue , known as the u-fold , which is similar to how humans speak by vibrating our vocal cords . this similarity between humans and whales is known as a homologous character . how does this suggest common ancestry between humans and whales , and why is that important from an evolutionary standpoint ?	scientists believe whales produce song by vibrating a flap of tissue , known as the u-fold , which is similar to how humans speak by vibrating our vocal cords . this similarity between humans and whales is known as a homologous character . how does this suggest common ancestry between humans and whales , and why is that important from an evolutionary standpoint ?
like finding waldo in the visual chaos , we hear the echo in the oral chatter . yet , rhyme need not surface solely at a line 's end . notice the strong `` i '' sound in , `` so long lives this and this gives life to thee . ''	rhyme at the end of lines of poetry or in a song :	rhyme at the end of lines of poetry or in a song :
when we find multiple different organs working together to perform the same job , we then call it an organ system . take the digestive system , for example . it 's made up of a mouth , esophagus , stomach , pancreas , liver , gall bladder , small intestine , and large intestine , also known as your colon .	which of the following is an example of an organ system ?	which of the following is an example of an organ system ?
for microspacecraft , it turns out , you need micropropulsion . on really small scales , some of the familiar rules of physics do n't apply , in particular , everyday newtonian mechanics break down , and forces that are normally negligible become powerful . those forces include surface tension and capillary action , the phenomena that govern other small things .	which type of normally negligible forces become powerful at a small scale ?	which type of normally negligible forces become powerful at a small scale ?
birds spend weeks preparing for the intense journey by gorging on large quantities of food , sometimes doubling their weight prior to departure . while flying , birds can lose almost one percent of their body weight an hour , so packing on the pounds is crucial to their survival . however , more than the physical stress , migrating birds are now facing a new source of hardship : landscape change .	during flight , how long does it take for birds to lose up to 1 % of their body weight ?	during flight , how long does it take for birds to lose up to 1 % of their body weight ?
alhazen 's theory accounts for a fact that the greek 's could n't easily explain : why it gets dark sometimes . the idea is that very few objects actually emit their own light . the special , light-emitting objects , like the sun or a lightbulb , are known as sources of light .	all objects emit their own light .	all objects emit their own light .
but as odysseus rushes to save his men , he meets the messenger god , hermes , who advises him to first consume a magical herb . odysseus follows this advice , and when he finally encounters circe , her spells have no effect on him , allowing him to defeat her and rescue his crew . naturally , this story of witchcraft and animal transformations was dismissed as nothing more than imagination for centuries .	why is odysseus 's crew so desperate to enter circe 's palatial home ?	why is odysseus 's crew so desperate to enter circe 's palatial home ?
we need to carve out time for an emotional state of which many of us are profoundly suspicious . self-compassion . we 're suspicious because that sounds horribly close to self-pity but because depression and self-hatred are serious enemies of a good life , we need to appreciate the role of self-care in a good , ambitious and fruitful life .	what do people often confuse self-compassion with that makes them suspicious of it ?	what do people often confuse self-compassion with that makes them suspicious of it ?
we need to carve out time for an emotional state of which many of us are profoundly suspicious . self-compassion . we 're suspicious because that sounds horribly close to self-pity but because depression and self-hatred are serious enemies of a good life , we need to appreciate the role of self-care in a good , ambitious and fruitful life .	according to this video , self-care plays an important role in a ...	according to this video , self-care plays an important role in a ...
we need to carve out time for an emotional state of which many of us are profoundly suspicious . self-compassion . we 're suspicious because that sounds horribly close to self-pity but because depression and self-hatred are serious enemies of a good life , we need to appreciate the role of self-care in a good , ambitious and fruitful life .	how long does it take to do this exercise in self-compassion ?	how long does it take to do this exercise in self-compassion ?
we need to carve out time for an emotional state of which many of us are profoundly suspicious . self-compassion . we 're suspicious because that sounds horribly close to self-pity but because depression and self-hatred are serious enemies of a good life , we need to appreciate the role of self-care in a good , ambitious and fruitful life .	we often think that when it comes to our goals , there is only success and failure . this exercise in self-compassion encourages us to take a closer look at the scale of our goals . to what end ?	we often think that when it comes to our goals , there is only success and failure . this exercise in self-compassion encourages us to take a closer look at the scale of our goals . to what end ?
in all , 55 delegates arrive in philadelphia over the course of the convention . they are all white males , property owners , and the average age is about 44 . some are slaveholders , some had signed the declaration of independence , [ james madison , roger sherman ] and almost all are well-educated .	the average delegate was	the average delegate was
another group of scientists believe that the reflex is retained in us today because it actually provides an important advantage . they point out that true hiccups are found only in mammals and that they 're not retained in birds , lizards , turtles , or any other exclusively air-breathing animals . further , hiccups appear in human babies long before birth and are far more common in infants that adults .	among vertebrate animals that breathe air , which experience hiccups ?	among vertebrate animals that breathe air , which experience hiccups ?
just like with addition , your matrices have to be the right size . look at these two matrices . 2 times 8 is 16 .	list the two ways you can multiply matrices , and briefly explain why you ca n't divide two matrices of equal size .	list the two ways you can multiply matrices , and briefly explain why you ca n't divide two matrices of equal size .
so i called myself pip , and came to be called pip . '' imagery , intrigue , emotion : each introduction makes you want to read more . if you have an assignment to write a literary analysis , your introduction will be just as important .	imagery , intrigue , and emotion . why are these things present in an introduction ?	imagery , intrigue , and emotion . why are these things present in an introduction ?
wells are typically encased in steel and cement to prevent contaminants from leaking into groundwater . but any negligence or fracking-related accidents can have devastating effects . fracturing directly into underground water hazardous underground seepage and leakage , and inadequate treatment and disposal of highly-toxic waste water can potentially contaminate drinking water around a fracking site . there 's also concern about the threat of earthquakes and damaged infrastructure from pressure and waste water injection .	how can residential drinking water around a fracking sight become contaminated ?	how can residential drinking water around a fracking sight become contaminated ?
in fact , both systems appear in our everyday lives , from how we measure degrees and time , to common measurements , like a dozen or a gross . and , of course , the base two , or binary system , is used in all of our digital devices , though programmers also use base eight and base 16 for more compact notation . so the next time you use a large number , think of the massive quantity captured in just these few symbols , and see if you can come up with a different way to represent it .	create a new ( positional ) numerical system . explain what base ( other than 10 ) and what symbols you would choose and why . write a few numbers in your system and their equivalent in base 10 .	create a new ( positional ) numerical system . explain what base ( other than 10 ) and what symbols you would choose and why . write a few numbers in your system and their equivalent in base 10 .
atomic theory was now accepted by the scientific community , but the next major advancement would not come until nearly a century later with the physicist j.j. thompson 's 1897 discovery of the electron . in what we might call the chocolate chip cookie model of the atom , he showed atoms as uniformly packed spheres of positive matter filled with negatively charged electrons . thompson won a nobel prize in 1906 for his electron discovery , but his model of the atom did n't stick around long .	who developed the `` chocolate chip cookie '' model of the atom ?	who developed the `` chocolate chip cookie '' model of the atom ?
atomic theory was now accepted by the scientific community , but the next major advancement would not come until nearly a century later with the physicist j.j. thompson 's 1897 discovery of the electron . in what we might call the chocolate chip cookie model of the atom , he showed atoms as uniformly packed spheres of positive matter filled with negatively charged electrons . thompson won a nobel prize in 1906 for his electron discovery , but his model of the atom did n't stick around long .	explain what might have been thomson ’ s thought process when he discovered the electron and used his discovery to come up with his ‘ chocolate chip cookie ’ model of the atom .	explain what might have been thomson ’ s thought process when he discovered the electron and used his discovery to come up with his ‘ chocolate chip cookie ’ model of the atom .
this is most apparent with the outer layer , or the cortex . internal regions , like the striatum , hypothalamus , thalamus , and brain stem appear to be made from continuous tissue , but in fact , they 're also organized with left and right sides . the left and the right sides of the brain do control different body functions , such as movement and sight .	which four brain structures appear to be made from continuous tissue but are still organized with right and left sides ?	which four brain structures appear to be made from continuous tissue but are still organized with right and left sides ?
`` by overthrowing its government and seizing power himself ? '' `` your honor , as a young and successful military officer , napoléon fully supported the french revolution , and its ideals of liberty , equality , and fraternity . but the revolutionaries were incapable of real leadership .	who of the following did not support the ideals of the revolution ?	who of the following did not support the ideals of the revolution ?
`` by overthrowing its government and seizing power himself ? '' `` your honor , as a young and successful military officer , napoléon fully supported the french revolution , and its ideals of liberty , equality , and fraternity . but the revolutionaries were incapable of real leadership .	what was napoleon ’ s final military campaign ?	what was napoleon ’ s final military campaign ?
diogenes the cynic , annoyed by this definition , stormed into plato 's class with a plucked chicken , announcing , `` behold . plato 's man . '' but back to a few good ideas .	according to plato , the forms are :	according to plato , the forms are :
diogenes the cynic , annoyed by this definition , stormed into plato 's class with a plucked chicken , announcing , `` behold . plato 's man . '' but back to a few good ideas .	plato wrote :	plato wrote :
diogenes the cynic , annoyed by this definition , stormed into plato 's class with a plucked chicken , announcing , `` behold . plato 's man . '' but back to a few good ideas .	there are three groups in plato ’ s ideal society . these are :	there are three groups in plato ’ s ideal society . these are :
diogenes the cynic , annoyed by this definition , stormed into plato 's class with a plucked chicken , announcing , `` behold . plato 's man . '' but back to a few good ideas .	why does plato think there are forms ?	why does plato think there are forms ?
diogenes the cynic , annoyed by this definition , stormed into plato 's class with a plucked chicken , announcing , `` behold . plato 's man . '' but back to a few good ideas .	why does plato think rationality is superior to sense experience for achieving knowledge ?	why does plato think rationality is superior to sense experience for achieving knowledge ?
diogenes the cynic , annoyed by this definition , stormed into plato 's class with a plucked chicken , announcing , `` behold . plato 's man . '' but back to a few good ideas .	why does plato think rulers in the ideal society should be philosophers ?	why does plato think rulers in the ideal society should be philosophers ?
it may surprise you that nasa does not know exactly where their probes are going to touch down on another planet . predicting where they will land requires extensive calculations fed by measurements that do n't always have a precise answer . how does the martian atmosphere 's density change at different elevations ?	write your own example of a scenario that would give you imprecise but accurate measurements .	write your own example of a scenario that would give you imprecise but accurate measurements .
it may surprise you that nasa does not know exactly where their probes are going to touch down on another planet . predicting where they will land requires extensive calculations fed by measurements that do n't always have a precise answer . how does the martian atmosphere 's density change at different elevations ?	write your own example of a scenario that would give you inaccurate but precise measurements .	write your own example of a scenario that would give you inaccurate but precise measurements .
it was a win for all concerned , except the prisoners . it 's estimated that , on average , prisoners spent six or so hours a day on treadmills , the equivalent of climbing 5,000 to 14,000 feet . 14,000 feet is roughly mount everest 's halfway point .	what was the average time spent on a treadmill ?	what was the average time spent on a treadmill ?
we can follow the same steps to create sixfold patterns by drawing construction lines over a circle divided into six parts , and then tessellating it , we can make something like this . here 's another sixfold pattern that has appeared across the centuries and all over the islamic world , including marrakesh , agra , konya and the alhambra . fourfold patterns fit in a square grid , and sixfold patterns in a hexagonal grid . fivefold patterns , however , are more challenging to tessellate because pentagons do n't neatly fill a surface , so instead of just creating a pattern in a pentagon , other shapes have to be added to make something that is repeatable , resulting in patterns that may seem confoundingly complex , but are still relatively simple to create .	some patterns appear across the islamic world and across the centuries . it is often not clear how the same patterns could be made in different places , centuries apart and thousands of kilometers apart . what possible explanations can you think of that might explain this ?	some patterns appear across the islamic world and across the centuries . it is often not clear how the same patterns could be made in different places , centuries apart and thousands of kilometers apart . what possible explanations can you think of that might explain this ?
if there 's no hcg , the wave of urine and enzymes just passes on by . finally , there 's one last stop to make , the control zone . as in any good experiment , this step confirms that the test is working properly .	what happens in the control zone of the test ?	what happens in the control zone of the test ?
not in the greeting card sense , in the scientific sense , where one part per million is a unit of measurement . parts per million counts the number of units of one substance per one million units of another . it can measure concentrations when a small amount makes a big difference .	parts per million , or ppm , is used to measure :	parts per million , or ppm , is used to measure :
not in the greeting card sense , in the scientific sense , where one part per million is a unit of measurement . parts per million counts the number of units of one substance per one million units of another . it can measure concentrations when a small amount makes a big difference .	now , how many hands would represent 5 parts per million ?	now , how many hands would represent 5 parts per million ?
not in the greeting card sense , in the scientific sense , where one part per million is a unit of measurement . parts per million counts the number of units of one substance per one million units of another . it can measure concentrations when a small amount makes a big difference .	in reality , the concentration of parts per million is a very small concentration . explain why is it important to understand this idea in regard to toxicology and pollution ?	in reality , the concentration of parts per million is a very small concentration . explain why is it important to understand this idea in regard to toxicology and pollution ?
but they make up less than 1 % of all cases . dr. marshall and dr. warren pinpointed a spiral-shaped bacteria called helicobacter pylori , or h. pylori , as the real offender . h. pylori is one of humanity 's oldest and most frequent companions , having joined us at least 50,000 years ago , and now found in 50 % of people .	prior to the discovery of helicobacter pylori , which of the following were considered causes of peptic ulcers ?	prior to the discovery of helicobacter pylori , which of the following were considered causes of peptic ulcers ?
but they make up less than 1 % of all cases . dr. marshall and dr. warren pinpointed a spiral-shaped bacteria called helicobacter pylori , or h. pylori , as the real offender . h. pylori is one of humanity 's oldest and most frequent companions , having joined us at least 50,000 years ago , and now found in 50 % of people .	approximately how much of the world ’ s population has helicobacter pylori ?	approximately how much of the world ’ s population has helicobacter pylori ?
but they make up less than 1 % of all cases . dr. marshall and dr. warren pinpointed a spiral-shaped bacteria called helicobacter pylori , or h. pylori , as the real offender . h. pylori is one of humanity 's oldest and most frequent companions , having joined us at least 50,000 years ago , and now found in 50 % of people .	which of the following factors most influences when helicobacter pylori prompts the development of ulcers ?	which of the following factors most influences when helicobacter pylori prompts the development of ulcers ?
there 's the animal 's toes . '' `` so how do their feet stick and unstick so quickly ? '' how < i > do < /i > they do this ?	how do gecko 's feet stick and unstick so quickly ?	how do gecko 's feet stick and unstick so quickly ?
have you experienced déjà vu ? it 's that shadowy feeling you get when a situation seems familiar .	what are the physical manifestations of déjà vu ?	what are the physical manifestations of déjà vu ?
have you experienced déjà vu ? it 's that shadowy feeling you get when a situation seems familiar .	what does déjà vu mean ?	what does déjà vu mean ?
have you experienced déjà vu ? it 's that shadowy feeling you get when a situation seems familiar .	how many theories of déjà vu are there ?	how many theories of déjà vu are there ?
have you experienced déjà vu ? it 's that shadowy feeling you get when a situation seems familiar .	why haven ’ t scientists been able to definitively explain the phenomenon of déjà vu ?	why haven ’ t scientists been able to definitively explain the phenomenon of déjà vu ?
classical greek and roman artists realized they could make objects seem further by drawing them smaller , but many early attempts at perspective were inconsistent or incorrect . in 15th century florence , artists realized the illusion of perspective could be achieved with higher degrees of sophistication by applying mathematical principles . in 1485 , leonardo da vinci manipulated the mathematics to create the first known anamorphic drawing .	an anamorphism distorts perspective using the same mathematical principles used to create perspective drawings . how long did it take for artists to begin distorting perspective after the mathematical principles of perspective were discovered in the early 15th century ?	an anamorphism distorts perspective using the same mathematical principles used to create perspective drawings . how long did it take for artists to begin distorting perspective after the mathematical principles of perspective were discovered in the early 15th century ?
yellow , white , even blue . and all pumpkins start out green – their skin is full of green chlorophyll that photosynthesizes just like in a leaf . as the pumpkin ripens , the chlorophyll breaks down , and other pigments like orange carotene become visible .	what color do pumpkins start as ?	what color do pumpkins start as ?
but have you ever stopped to think about what it really means , or why it 's used so often ? the term was named after british author eric blair known by his pen name george orwell . because his most famous work , the novel `` 1984 , '' depicts an oppressive society under a totalitarian government , `` orwellian '' is often used simply to mean authoritarian .	true or false : george orwell gave his unconditional endorsement to all left-leaning political parties .	true or false : george orwell gave his unconditional endorsement to all left-leaning political parties .
so it ’ s not actually that hard . i haven ’ t worked much with lanthanum but one of my students or a russian visitor did some rather interesting experiments with making a compound of lanthanum and copper , so-called lanthanum cuprate , which is quite an interesting catalyst . lanthanum ’ s got quite a few technological uses .	as the professor explained , how might lanthanum cuprate be used in the lab ?	as the professor explained , how might lanthanum cuprate be used in the lab ?
the modern civil rights movement began in the 1940s with those questions in mind . after years of sacrifice , bloodshed , and pain , the united states passed the voting rights act of 1965 , finally eliminating restrictions such as literacy tests and protecting the voting rights promised under the 15th amendment to the constitution . now , any citizen over the age of 21 could vote .	what was the voting rights act of 1965 ?	what was the voting rights act of 1965 ?
you ’ ll see a lot of nurse sharks , zebra sharks , some reef sharks and sand tiger sharks . but not the great white . for decades , aquariums have tried to contain the world ’ s largest predatory fish .	what was the longest an adult great white shark survived in captivity ?	what was the longest an adult great white shark survived in captivity ?
findings show that we adapt to extrinsic and material things , like a new car or a bigger house , much faster than we do to novel experiences , like visiting a new place or learning a new skill . so by that reasoning , the more you spend money on experiences rather than things , the happier you 'd be . and there 's another way to turn your money into happiness : spend it on other people .	the more you spend money on ___________ the happier you will be .	the more you spend money on ___________ the happier you will be .
we would never do it . then why do we consider laying off people inside our organization ? charlie implemented a policy of lifetime employment . if you get a job at next jump , you can not get fired for performance issues . in fact , if you have issues , they will coach you and they will give you support , just like we would with one of our children who happens to come home with a c from school .	what revolutionary policy did the ceo of next jump institute in his organization ?	what revolutionary policy did the ceo of next jump institute in his organization ?
first , choose from the drop down tab already filed if you answered no to the questions below you 'll be asked for your pin , then click the irs button to proceed . then you leave the fafsa website be led to the irs website click ok to continue . once on the irs website enter all of your information correctly , all information must match your tax return , once you 're done , click submit .	what is the website for the fafsa ?	what is the website for the fafsa ?
and finally our last rung : we take action . we back up , pull up behind his car , honk our horn , and roll down our window to scream a few choice words as well . now imagine , he walks over quickly , apologizing .	if you were a passenger in the car that was cut off in the parking lot , what might you say to the driver as they were honking their horn and rolling down their window to yell at the other driver ? why ?	if you were a passenger in the car that was cut off in the parking lot , what might you say to the driver as they were honking their horn and rolling down their window to yell at the other driver ? why ?
however , in a biofilm , the extracellular matrix shields microbes from external threats . biofilms also enable interactions between individual cells . when microbes are packed against each other in close proximity , they can communicate , exchange genetic information , and engage in cooperative and competitive social behaviors .	what advantages do biofilms provide for the cells that live within them ?	what advantages do biofilms provide for the cells that live within them ?
and just as land forms can create boundaries that affect movement , so can political boundaries , like a border gate , for example . so , how can you analyze these movement factors to help your chance of survival ? there are three basic steps .	which of the following would most likely help facilitate movement ?	which of the following would most likely help facilitate movement ?
their sinuous , nocturnal movements through the water are mesmerizing to watch . and though they may resemble underwater snakes , eels are , in fact , a very interesting type of fish . there are several things about eels that make them unique besides their elongated shape and limbless bodies .	though they resemble underwater snakes , eels are a very interesting type of ________ .	though they resemble underwater snakes , eels are a very interesting type of ________ .
voltaire contributed entries , among them history , elegance , and fire . diderot 's entries sometimes exhibit slight bias . in `` political authority , '' he dismantled the divine right of kings .	what did diderot not criticize in the encyclopedia ?	what did diderot not criticize in the encyclopedia ?
voltaire contributed entries , among them history , elegance , and fire . diderot 's entries sometimes exhibit slight bias . in `` political authority , '' he dismantled the divine right of kings .	how has our perception of people who find things out for us changed or stayed the same since diderot ’ s time ?	how has our perception of people who find things out for us changed or stayed the same since diderot ’ s time ?
extreme temperatures were common and fierce storms made life unpredictable . dinosaurs flourished on land , pterosaurs roamed the skies , and giant marine reptiles and sharks swam in warm seas . small mammals , our ancestors , lived quite literally in the shadow of these extraordinary creatures .	alanqa saharica , a giant ________ , can be described as a giant flying reptile .	alanqa saharica , a giant ________ , can be described as a giant flying reptile .
and even rarer stones can result from genetic disorders or certain medications . a kidney stone can go undetected until it starts to move . when a stone travels through the kidney and into the ureter , its sharp edges scratch the walls of the urinary tract .	what are the precipitating factors of kidney stone formation ?	what are the precipitating factors of kidney stone formation ?
and even rarer stones can result from genetic disorders or certain medications . a kidney stone can go undetected until it starts to move . when a stone travels through the kidney and into the ureter , its sharp edges scratch the walls of the urinary tract .	why might the rate of kidney stone formation be changing in the human population ?	why might the rate of kidney stone formation be changing in the human population ?
we 'll fast forward again . the colorado plateau now uplifts , likely due to a combination of upward mantle flow and a thickened north american plate . in future millennia , the colorado river will eventually sculpt the plateau into the epic grand canyon .	the movement of tectonic plates is largely related to heat flow in the mantle below . what other mechanisms drive plate motion ?	the movement of tectonic plates is largely related to heat flow in the mantle below . what other mechanisms drive plate motion ?
the mouths of great whites contain pointy lower teeth for holding prey and triangular serrated upper teeth for slicing . this variety enables sharks to target prey in a diversity of ocean environments . many species also have another peculiar trait - the ability to launch their jaws out of their mouths , open them extra wide , and grab prey by surprise .	when did sharks appear in the ocean ?	when did sharks appear in the ocean ?
the system 's ability to circulate water-soluble vitamins in the bloodstream so easily means that most of them can be passed out equally easily via the kidneys . because of that , most water-soluble vitamins need to be replenished on a daily basis through the food we eat . but fat-soluble vitamins have staying power because they can be packed into the liver and in fat cells .	how many fruits and vegetables do you need to get enough daily vitamins ?	how many fruits and vegetables do you need to get enough daily vitamins ?
in 1843 , lady ada lovelace , an english mathematician considered the world 's first computer programmer , wrote that a machine could not have human-like intelligence as long as it only did what humans intentionally programmed it to do . according to lovelace , a machine must be able to create original ideas if it is to be considered intelligent . the lovelace test , formalized in 2001 , proposes a way of scrutinizing this idea . a machine can pass this test if it can produce an outcome that its designers can not explain based on their original code . the lovelace test is , by design , more of a thought experiment than an objective scientific test . but it 's a place to start .	to pass the lovelace test a machine should :	to pass the lovelace test a machine should :
so in the bottom we see neon and this is a small glass discharge tube which has got a very low pressure of neon inside it . it ’ s generally used for lots of signs and things like that .	what color is an illuminated shop sign if there is only neon inside the discharge tube ?	what color is an illuminated shop sign if there is only neon inside the discharge tube ?
so in the bottom we see neon and this is a small glass discharge tube which has got a very low pressure of neon inside it . it ’ s generally used for lots of signs and things like that .	neon was discovered in 1898 by sir william ramsay and morris w. travers in london . from where did they isolate it ?	neon was discovered in 1898 by sir william ramsay and morris w. travers in london . from where did they isolate it ?
so in the bottom we see neon and this is a small glass discharge tube which has got a very low pressure of neon inside it . it ’ s generally used for lots of signs and things like that .	if neon only emits a reddish color , how do we obtain the blue , green and yellow neon signs ?	if neon only emits a reddish color , how do we obtain the blue , green and yellow neon signs ?
so in the bottom we see neon and this is a small glass discharge tube which has got a very low pressure of neon inside it . it ’ s generally used for lots of signs and things like that .	which elements can react with neon and bond to it ?	which elements can react with neon and bond to it ?
as soon as you say uranium to people , people start going “ ooh , not sure about that. ” this is the bogeyman . this is uranium turnings . you see they have a sort of dull appearance because when they are cleaned up they are really very reactive , and they react with oxygen extremely quickly , but if you acid-treat them with concentrated nitric acid you get really beautiful gleaming surfaces but it doesn ’ t hang around very long .	which nickname did steve give uranium ?	which nickname did steve give uranium ?
as soon as you say uranium to people , people start going “ ooh , not sure about that. ” this is the bogeyman . this is uranium turnings . you see they have a sort of dull appearance because when they are cleaned up they are really very reactive , and they react with oxygen extremely quickly , but if you acid-treat them with concentrated nitric acid you get really beautiful gleaming surfaces but it doesn ’ t hang around very long .	as the “ uranium man ” showed us his laboratory , which compound covers the surface of uranium turnings and makes them appear black in the bottle ?	as the “ uranium man ” showed us his laboratory , which compound covers the surface of uranium turnings and makes them appear black in the bottle ?
as soon as you say uranium to people , people start going “ ooh , not sure about that. ” this is the bogeyman . this is uranium turnings . you see they have a sort of dull appearance because when they are cleaned up they are really very reactive , and they react with oxygen extremely quickly , but if you acid-treat them with concentrated nitric acid you get really beautiful gleaming surfaces but it doesn ’ t hang around very long .	which are the two principal isotopes of uranium that are present in nature ?	which are the two principal isotopes of uranium that are present in nature ?
why does it matter what time it is ? who determined the clock and why in the world are there so many different time zones ? the first form of telling time was the sundial and the earliest sundials known from the archaeological record are obelisks from nearly 5,000 years ago .	the basis of the world clock is :	the basis of the world clock is :
even one can cause cell death . the two most common pathways for repairing double strand breaks are called homologous recombination and non-homologous end joining . homologous recombination uses an undamaged section of similar dna as a template . enzymes interlace the damaged and undamgaed strands , get them to exchange sequences of nucleotides , and finally fill in the missing gaps to end up with two complete double-stranded segments .	for homologous recombination to occur :	for homologous recombination to occur :
increasing global temperature is causing rhythms of nature to shift . bud burst , the day when a tree or plant 's leaf or flower buds open , is occurring earlier in the year for some species . for every one degree celsius rise in temperature , bud burst happens five days earlier than usual . differences in timing affect not only plants , but the insects and birds that depend on the plants for food .	what is bud burst ?	what is bud burst ?
the crowded salt ions left behind notice that lower down , salt molecules seem to be enjoying more space . and so an invasion begins , as they too move downwards in the water column . in the polar regions , we see how this small local process effects global movement .	substances in nature tend to move from :	substances in nature tend to move from :
but jefferson 's box of bones did n't come from a lion . they came from an extinct giant sloth . prehistoric ground sloths first appeared around 35 million years ago . dozens of species lived across north , central and south america , alongside other ancient creatures like mastodons and giant armadillos .	how large were the largest of the giant ground sloths ?	how large were the largest of the giant ground sloths ?
imagine setting sail from hawaii in a canoe . your target is a small island thousands of kilometers away in the middle of the pacific ocean .	some voyages lasted up to 30 days . what would be some things to consider before setting sail ?	some voyages lasted up to 30 days . what would be some things to consider before setting sail ?
it 's a fairly interesting element , it 's incredibly dense . if you hold a golf ball size shape of plutonium in your hand , it would weigh in excess of half a kilogram . which is one heavy golf ball . and if you were holding it , you would have to be holding it through several layers of gloves , at least one of which would be lead lined . and as you held it , it would be like having a really hot cup of tea in your hand .	according to steve , if you held a sample of plutonium in your hand ( with several layers of gloves , of course ) , why would it feel so heavy ?	according to steve , if you held a sample of plutonium in your hand ( with several layers of gloves , of course ) , why would it feel so heavy ?
these gases , however , constitute less than 1 % of volume , and are often seen with ingestion of amino acids containing sulfur , which may explain the foul smell of gas from certain high protein diets . increased passage of gas is commonly noticed after eating foods with high amounts of indigestible carbohydrates , like beans , lentils , dairy products , onions , garlic , leeks , radishes , potatoes , oats , wheat , cauliflower , broccoli , cabbage , and brussel sprouts . humans lack the enzymes , so the bacteria able to ferment complex carbohydrates take over , and this naturally leads to more gas than usual .	explain , using a correct scientific description , why a cabbage salad made with radishes , onions , broccoli , and cauliflower will produce more than the normal amount of gas in your intestines .	explain , using a correct scientific description , why a cabbage salad made with radishes , onions , broccoli , and cauliflower will produce more than the normal amount of gas in your intestines .
for example , it is part of everyday language used when people greet one another and welcome the new day . in many parts of the arab world and parts of south asia , such as bangladesh for example , the greeting of `` as-salamu alaykum '' can be translated to `` peace be with you . '' the same is true as you walk through markets or into schools each morning in india , or nepal , or bhutan , where greetings of `` namaste , '' which has not only a strong message of peace - `` the spirit in me greets the spirit in you '' - but also its physical gesture , the palms brought together slowly at the heart , to honor a special place in each of us .	in bangladesh , the greeting , `` assalamualaikum '' can be literally translated to :	in bangladesh , the greeting , `` assalamualaikum '' can be literally translated to :
for example , it is part of everyday language used when people greet one another and welcome the new day . in many parts of the arab world and parts of south asia , such as bangladesh for example , the greeting of `` as-salamu alaykum '' can be translated to `` peace be with you . '' the same is true as you walk through markets or into schools each morning in india , or nepal , or bhutan , where greetings of `` namaste , '' which has not only a strong message of peace - `` the spirit in me greets the spirit in you '' - but also its physical gesture , the palms brought together slowly at the heart , to honor a special place in each of us .	in the video , there are many images that conjure thoughts of peace . name some of those images , and explain why they make you think of peace . what are some images not seen in the video that make you think of peace .	in the video , there are many images that conjure thoughts of peace . name some of those images , and explain why they make you think of peace . what are some images not seen in the video that make you think of peace .
here 's three of mine . when richard feynman was a young boy in queens , he went for a walk with his dad and his wagon and a ball . he noticed that when he pulled the wagon , the ball went to the back of the wagon .	what everyday observation prompted a young richard feynman to discuss inertia with his father ?	what everyday observation prompted a young richard feynman to discuss inertia with his father ?
this is called ovulation , and it usually happens ten to sixteen days before the start of a period . the tiny oocyte moves along the fallopian tube . a pregnancy can only occur if the egg is fertilized by a sperm cell within the next 24 hours .	an oocyte is :	an oocyte is :
and you thought your childhood was awkward . but here is the same fish as an adult , a beautiful inhabitant of the indian and pacific oceans ' coral reefs and one of the most popular captive fish for salt water aquariums . of the 27,000 known fish species , over a quarter live on coral reefs that make up less than 1 % of the earth 's surface .	over 90 % of the coral reef fish kept in saltwater aquariums and sold at pet stores in the us and europe are collected from the wild . why might these fish be wild-caught rather than farmed in captivity ?	over 90 % of the coral reef fish kept in saltwater aquariums and sold at pet stores in the us and europe are collected from the wild . why might these fish be wild-caught rather than farmed in captivity ?
and you thought your childhood was awkward . but here is the same fish as an adult , a beautiful inhabitant of the indian and pacific oceans ' coral reefs and one of the most popular captive fish for salt water aquariums . of the 27,000 known fish species , over a quarter live on coral reefs that make up less than 1 % of the earth 's surface .	what is one historical misconception about coral reef fish , which is now being challenged ?	what is one historical misconception about coral reef fish , which is now being challenged ?
but we can say there 's a certain probability of finding an electron in a given space around the nucleus . and that means that we can ask the following question : if we drew a shape around the nucleus such that we would be 95 % sure of finding a given electron within that shape , what would it look like ? here are a few of these shapes .	which of the following statements is true :	which of the following statements is true :
basically impossible ! another physiological hypothesis is known as non-conscious mimicry , or the chameleon effect . this occurs when you imitate someone 's behavior without knowing it , a subtle and unintentional copycat maneuver .	the physiological hypothesis known as non-conscious mimicry is also referred to as :	the physiological hypothesis known as non-conscious mimicry is also referred to as :
voyager 1 entered interstellar space in 2012 , and will reach the nearest stellar system in 40,000 years . if either spacecraft is discovered by extraterrestrial life , there 's a possibility that they could decipher the clues from the golden record and one day reach our planet . that 's particularly true if theirs is a much more technologically advanced civilization .	the map on the golden record uses __________ to point extraterrestrial life to earth .	the map on the golden record uses __________ to point extraterrestrial life to earth .
finally , gabriella 's parents are likely to be subordinate bilinguals who learn a secondary language by filtering it through their primary language . because all types of bilingual people can become fully proficient in a language regardless of accent or pronunciation , the difference may not be apparent to a casual observer . but recent advances in brain imaging technology have given neurolinguists a glimpse into how specific aspects of language learning affect the bilingual brain . it 's well known that the brain 's left hemisphere is more dominant and analytical in logical processes , while the right hemisphere is more active in emotional and social ones , though this is a matter of degree , not an absolute split .	describe the three types of bilingual - compound bilingual , coordinate bilingual and subordinate bilingual . what are the characteristics of each type ?	describe the three types of bilingual - compound bilingual , coordinate bilingual and subordinate bilingual . what are the characteristics of each type ?
now on to the final question : when you do get your bike moving , why does it go forward ? according to newton 's third law , for every action , there is an equal and opposite reaction . to understand this , think about what happens when you drop a bouncy ball .	according to newton ’ s third law , for every action there is an equal and opposite	according to newton ’ s third law , for every action there is an equal and opposite
and , ergo the second prototyping rule , which is `` doing is the best kind of thinking . '' they teach you to think a lot in school , but i think it is a little bit overrated . now last example , you know , actually google is not the first team that 's tried to go make something like this and if you search for headset display , you get tons of images of teams that have built various systems like this , but i can tell you at a glance that none of these pieces of hardware are comfortable to wear for more than 15 minutes except for maybe the helmet over there , but then you got to wear a helmet .	do you think we rely too heavily on technology ? tell a story about how technology has helped you .	do you think we rely too heavily on technology ? tell a story about how technology has helped you .
it just stays there . it 's become a zombie slave . again , i 'm not making this up .	what do you think of when you hear the word zombie ? can you find other examples of zombies in the natural world ?	what do you think of when you hear the word zombie ? can you find other examples of zombies in the natural world ?
one box , four packs , eight pastries . and when i share a slice of pizza with a friend , we have to cut `` it '' into two smaller pieces . so a box of toaster pastries is composed of composed units , and when i split a slice of pizza , i 'm partitioning a partitioned unit . but what does that have to do with math ?	what are you doing when you split a slice of pizza ?	what are you doing when you split a slice of pizza ?
the monarch king louis xvi based his authority on divine right and granted special privileges to the first and second estates , the catholic clergy , and the nobles . the third estate , middle class merchants and craftsmen , as well as over 20 million peasants , had far less power and they were the only ones who paid taxes , not just to the king , but to the other estates as well . in bad harvest years , taxation could leave peasants with almost nothing while the king and nobles lived lavishly on their extracted wealth .	which estate paid taxes to the king ?	which estate paid taxes to the king ?
one of these genes is brca1 , which stands for breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 . brca1 belongs to a class of genes called tumor suppressor genes . tumor suppressor genes are involved in regulating how fast a cell divides . normally , cell division follows an orderly process called the cell cycle , which is basically the life cycle of a cell . within the cell cycle is a series of checkpoints , where proteins , such as the one produced by brca1 , regulate how fast the cell may proceed .	another class of genes , called the proto-oncogenes , function to a similar manner to the gas pedal in a car . only a single copy of a proto-oncogene needs to be mutated in a cell for it to lose control of cell division . why would this be the case ?	another class of genes , called the proto-oncogenes , function to a similar manner to the gas pedal in a car . only a single copy of a proto-oncogene needs to be mutated in a cell for it to lose control of cell division . why would this be the case ?
would n't the stronger preexisting interactions keep the solid from dissolving ? this is where entropy comes in . entropy basically describes how objects and energy are distributed based on random motion .	entropy is best described as :	entropy is best described as :
and you thought your childhood was awkward . but here is the same fish as an adult , a beautiful inhabitant of the indian and pacific oceans ' coral reefs and one of the most popular captive fish for salt water aquariums . of the 27,000 known fish species , over a quarter live on coral reefs that make up less than 1 % of the earth 's surface . but prior to settling down in this diverse tropical environment , baby coral reef fish face the difficult process of growing up on their own , undergoing drastic changes , and the journey of a lifetime before they find that reef to call home . the life cycle for most of these fish begins when their parents spew sperm and eggs into the water column .	if you were a biologist interested in coral reefs , how might you study the large-scale geographic movements of tiny baby fish ?	if you were a biologist interested in coral reefs , how might you study the large-scale geographic movements of tiny baby fish ?
almost all have , at one time or another in their history , gone through some sort of aniconic phase . aniconism prohibits any visual depiction of the divine . this is done in order to avoid idolatry , or confusion between the representation of divinity and divinity itself .	aniconism prohibits any visual depiction of the ________ .	aniconism prohibits any visual depiction of the ________ .
two kidneys , two ureters , two urethral sphincters , and a urethra . constantly trickling down from the kidneys is the yellowish liquid known as urine . the kidneys make urine from a mix of water and the body 's waste products , funneling the unwanted fluid into two muscular tubes called ureters . these carry it downward into the hollow organ known as the bladder .	the kidneys create a fluid called urine which is made up of :	the kidneys create a fluid called urine which is made up of :
and each division gives rise to distinctive patterns . there 's an easy way to determine whether any pattern is based on fourfold , fivefold , or sixfold symmetry . most contain stars surrounded by petal shapes .	what is the most straightforward way to determine into which category a pattern falls ?	what is the most straightforward way to determine into which category a pattern falls ?
the familiar western scale is based on the overtone series of a vibrating string . when we hear one note played with another that has exactly twice its frequency , its first overtone , they sound so harmonious that we assign them the same letter , and define the difference between them as an octave . the rest of the scale is squeezed into that octave divided into twelve half steps whose frequency is each 2^ ( 1/12 ) higher than the one before .	if you double the frequency of a particular note on any instrument you get a ( n ) :	if you double the frequency of a particular note on any instrument you get a ( n ) :
past the pits where the asphalt flowers grow we shall walk with a walk that is measured and slow , and watch where the chalk-white arrows go to the place where the sidewalk ends . yes we 'll walk with a walk that is measured and slow , and we 'll go where the chalk-white arrows go , for the children , they mark , and the children , they know the place where the sidewalk ends .	what phrases in the poem break from reality as we know it ?	what phrases in the poem break from reality as we know it ?
smells are powerfully linked to emotions and can awaken memories of places we 've long ago left and people we 've loved . but fortunately , it is possible to train our brains to smell better . for example , helen keller was able to recognize a person 's work , and in her words , distinguish the carpenter from the iron worker , the artist from the mason or the chemist , by a simple inhale .	you are in charge of summarizing the steps to becoming a better “ smell detective. ” create a summary that can be quickly read and followed .	you are in charge of summarizing the steps to becoming a better “ smell detective. ” create a summary that can be quickly read and followed .
the more intertwining there is between these features , the denser and more resilient the weave becomes . take the amazon rainforest , one of the most biodiverse regions on earth due to its complex ecosystems , huge mix of species , and the genetic variety within those species . here are tangled liana vines , which crawl up from the forest floor to the canopy , intertwining with treetops and growing thick wooden stems that support these towering trees .	the tapir and agouti are ______ found in the amazon rainforest .	the tapir and agouti are ______ found in the amazon rainforest .
the more intertwining there is between these features , the denser and more resilient the weave becomes . take the amazon rainforest , one of the most biodiverse regions on earth due to its complex ecosystems , huge mix of species , and the genetic variety within those species . here are tangled liana vines , which crawl up from the forest floor to the canopy , intertwining with treetops and growing thick wooden stems that support these towering trees .	from both the verbal and visual descriptions provided in this lesson , sketch your own diagram of the amazon rainforest food web .	from both the verbal and visual descriptions provided in this lesson , sketch your own diagram of the amazon rainforest food web .
that sounds very romantic , but , in reality , that girl will probably suffer more damage from the hero than the bullet if he moved her at super speed . newton 's first law of motion deals with inertia , which is the resistance to a change in its state of motion . so , an object will continue moving or staying at the same place unless something changes it .	newton ’ s first law of motion deals with inertia , which is	newton ’ s first law of motion deals with inertia , which is
just as its round face can trace the linear passage of time , the flow of rhythm can be traced in a circle . the continuity of a wheel can be a more intuitive way to visualize rhythm than a linear score that requires moving back and forth along the page . we can mark the beats at different positions around the circle using blue dots for main beats , orange ones for off beats , and white dots for secondary beats .	a rhythm requires :	a rhythm requires :
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby mysteries of vernacular : venom , the poisonous fluid secreted by animals , like snakes and scorpions , typically transmitted by bite or sting . as vile as the word is now , the history of venom begins with the pleasant indo-european root wen , which meant to desire or strive for . perhaps , not surprisingly , wen also generated a number of amiable modern words , like win or wish .	what does the word wen mean ?	what does the word wen mean ?
whether or not it ’ s a lonely whale , 52 blue is an oddity that people seem to love . number six : upsweep . now , ocean sounds are practically their own field of study , noaa has been monitoring acoustics in the ocean for decades now .	what is upsweep ?	what is upsweep ?
this built-in sun shield helped protect them from melanoma , likely making them evolutionarily fitter and capable of passing this useful trait on to new generations . but soon , some of our sun-adapted ancestors migrated northward out of the tropical zone , spreading far and wide across the earth . the further north they traveled , the less direct sunshine they saw .	what disadvantage did our sun-adapted ancestors have when they moved to northern latitudes ?	what disadvantage did our sun-adapted ancestors have when they moved to northern latitudes ?
based on where the doctors place the electrodes in the brain , we can ask questions about what the brain does . sometimes we find one cell that starts bursting in activity every time the patient sees a particular picture , for example , a picture of marilyn monroe . see , every time the patient sees marilyn monroe , some specific cells fire in the brain .	sometimes , cells start bursting in activity when a patient sees a particular picture ( e.g . marilyn monroe ) . what is a possible implication for this phenomenon ?	sometimes , cells start bursting in activity when a patient sees a particular picture ( e.g . marilyn monroe ) . what is a possible implication for this phenomenon ?
certain kinds of music could incite a person to violence while others could placate a person into a benign , unthinking stupor . according to plato , only very specific types of music were beneficial to a person 's ethos . one should only listen to music that promotes intelligence , self-discipline , and courage , and all other kinds of music must be avoided . furthermore , plato fervently denounced any music that deviated from established musical conventions , fearing that doing so would lead to the degradation of the standards of civilization , the corruption of youth , and eventually complete and utter anarchy .	plato believed that dangerous music was music that :	plato believed that dangerous music was music that :
unlike the representative democracies common today , where voters elect leaders to make laws and decisions on their behalf , 5th century bc athens was a direct democracy that encouraged wide participation through the principle of ho boulomenos , or anyone who wishes . this meant that any of its approximately 30,000 eligible citizens could attend the ecclesia , a general assembly meeting several times a month . in principle , any of the 6,000 or so who showed up at each session had the right to address their fellow citizens , propose a law , or bring a public lawsuit .	who could attend the athenian assembly , or ekklesia ?	who could attend the athenian assembly , or ekklesia ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar so i work on trying to understand how the universe works at the very basic level , the most basic level we can find . so , when you try in your everyday life to try and work out how something works , what you 're actually doing is you 're looking for what i call hidden structures . for example , you take something like your cell phone , your smart phone , it 's a complicated object , and you might wonder how it works .	when you try in your every day life to figure out how something works , you are looking for what clifford johnson calls ____________ .	when you try in your every day life to figure out how something works , you are looking for what clifford johnson calls ____________ .
most of the world 's ecosystems are the result of millennia of coevolution by organisms , adapting to their environment and each other until a stable balance is reached . healthy ecosystems maintain this balance via limiting factors , environmental conditions that restrict the size or range of a species . these include things like natural geography and climate , food availability , and the presence or absence of predators .	explain the role that limiting factors play in keeping population sizes in check .	explain the role that limiting factors play in keeping population sizes in check .
most of the world 's ecosystems are the result of millennia of coevolution by organisms , adapting to their environment and each other until a stable balance is reached . healthy ecosystems maintain this balance via limiting factors , environmental conditions that restrict the size or range of a species . these include things like natural geography and climate , food availability , and the presence or absence of predators .	limiting factors can be defined as :	limiting factors can be defined as :
most of the world 's ecosystems are the result of millennia of coevolution by organisms , adapting to their environment and each other until a stable balance is reached . healthy ecosystems maintain this balance via limiting factors , environmental conditions that restrict the size or range of a species . these include things like natural geography and climate , food availability , and the presence or absence of predators .	some examples of limiting factors are :	some examples of limiting factors are :
but as strange as it may seem , some numbers have also been considered dangerous enough to ban . our distant ancestors long counted objects using simple tally marks . but as they developed agriculture and began living together in larger groups , this was no longer enough .	our distant ancestors counted objects using :	our distant ancestors counted objects using :
the data are beamed to astrophysicists around the world who look at the patterns of light for clues about the neutrinos that produced them . these super energetic collisions are so rare that icecube 's scientists give each neutrino nicknames , like big bird and dr. strangepork . icecube has already observed the highest energy cosmic neutrinos ever seen . the neutrinos it detects should finally tell us where cosmic rays come from and how they reached such extreme energies .	why is icecube at the south pole ?	why is icecube at the south pole ?
the data are beamed to astrophysicists around the world who look at the patterns of light for clues about the neutrinos that produced them . these super energetic collisions are so rare that icecube 's scientists give each neutrino nicknames , like big bird and dr. strangepork . icecube has already observed the highest energy cosmic neutrinos ever seen . the neutrinos it detects should finally tell us where cosmic rays come from and how they reached such extreme energies .	icecube is built at the south pole because we needed a cubic kilometer of a transparent material . can you think of other places where a detector such as icecube could be built ?	icecube is built at the south pole because we needed a cubic kilometer of a transparent material . can you think of other places where a detector such as icecube could be built ?
therefore , to prevent the process from being used as a political weapon , the constitution specifies that an official can only be impeached for treason , bribery , or other high crimes and misdemeanors . that still leaves a lot of room for interpretation , not to mention politics , and many impeachment trials have split along partisan lines . but the process is generally understood to be reserved for serious abuses of power .	what are the grounds for impeachment , and how are they open to interpretation ?	what are the grounds for impeachment , and how are they open to interpretation ?
the moon often turns red during a total lunar eclipse because our planet ’ s atmosphere scatters the shorter bluer wavelengths of light , while the longer , redder wavelengths pass through . or to put it another way , a total lunar eclipse projects all of the world ’ s sunsets and sunrises onto the moon . total solar eclipses seem much more rare because totality lasts just a few minutes , and although earth gets a total solar eclipse every 18 months on average , each one is only viewable by less than half a percent of earth ’ s surface .	what happens to the surface of the moon during a total lunar eclipse , when all of earth 's sunrises and sunsets are projected onto it ?	what happens to the surface of the moon during a total lunar eclipse , when all of earth 's sunrises and sunsets are projected onto it ?
oh me from the the past , you sniveling literalist . well today we 're going to talk about america 's first declared war , the war of 1812 , so called because historians are terrible at naming things . i mean the could have called it the revolutionary war : part deux , or the canadian cataclysm , or the war to facilitate future wars .	why do you think the host says america is really good at war ?	why do you think the host says america is really good at war ?
oh me from the the past , you sniveling literalist . well today we 're going to talk about america 's first declared war , the war of 1812 , so called because historians are terrible at naming things . i mean the could have called it the revolutionary war : part deux , or the canadian cataclysm , or the war to facilitate future wars .	why do historians find fault with the argument that the `` orders in council '' caused the war of 1812 ?	why do historians find fault with the argument that the `` orders in council '' caused the war of 1812 ?
warmer ground temperatures produce a wetter snow that is easier to pack because liquid water molecules help snowflakes stick to each other . melted snow also plays a critical role in another wintry activity , skiing . completely dry snow is very difficult to ski on because there 's too much friction between the jagged snowflakes and the ski surface . so what 's happening is that as skis move , they rub the surface of the snow and warm it up , creating a thin layer of water , which helps them slide along . so technically , it 's not really snow skiing , but water skiing . but it is true that no matter how hard you look , you 're almost definitely not going to find two identical snowflakes , and that 's a mystery that scientists are still trying to solve , though we know that it has to do with the many possible branching points in snowflake formation , and the differences in temperature and humidity , and while we wait for the answer , we can enjoy watching these tiny fractals falling from the sky .	we learned that we can ski due to a layer of water between the snow and the skis that form due to friction ; can you think of any other sports where we utilize a similar process ?	we learned that we can ski due to a layer of water between the snow and the skis that form due to friction ; can you think of any other sports where we utilize a similar process ?
one foggy morning in 1884 , the british steamer `` rumney '' crashed into the french ship `` frigorifique . '' seeing their ship filling with water , the french crew climbed aboard the `` rumney . ''	the `` frigorifique '' sank the `` rumney '' because :	the `` frigorifique '' sank the `` rumney '' because :
it seems simple enough . there are only two possible outcomes for each question . but with a 10-question true/ false quiz , there are lots of possible ways to write down different combinations of ts and fs .	with five possible outcomes for a single multiple-choice question , how many different outcomes are possible for randomly guessing on twenty such questions ?	with five possible outcomes for a single multiple-choice question , how many different outcomes are possible for randomly guessing on twenty such questions ?
they include the discovery of an alien civilization , development of a way for humans and animals to communicate flawlessly , and radical life extension . so , what does the future hold ? of course , we ca n't know for certain , but science fiction shows us many possibilities . ultimately , it is our responsibility to determine which we will work towards making a reality .	why does science fiction help us to better understand the future ?	why does science fiction help us to better understand the future ?
there are two different particles that can be emitted from radioactive nuclei , but never together . the very fast electron is known as a beta particle . if you know a little bit about electrons , you may be thinking , `` what was the electron doing in the nucleus in the first place ? ''	beta radiation passes through paper but is blocked by thick metal . how could you use it to measure the thickness of thin metal foil ?	beta radiation passes through paper but is blocked by thick metal . how could you use it to measure the thickness of thin metal foil ?
early polynesians eventually settled a vast area of islands spread over 40 million square kilometers of the pacific ocean . some historians believe the voyagers moved from place to place to avoid overpopulation . others , that they were driven by war .	early polynesian voyages took place from approximately :	early polynesian voyages took place from approximately :
but do n't worry , this is n't the opening of a new michael bay movie . this is the journey of the polar lights . the northern and southern lights , also known as the aurora borealis and aurora australis , respectively , occur when high energy particles from the sun collide with neutral atoms in our atmosphere .	what is the region of earth in which the polar lights occur ?	what is the region of earth in which the polar lights occur ?
but do n't worry , this is n't the opening of a new michael bay movie . this is the journey of the polar lights . the northern and southern lights , also known as the aurora borealis and aurora australis , respectively , occur when high energy particles from the sun collide with neutral atoms in our atmosphere .	have you ever been on a trip that took a lot of detours ? maybe you didn ’ t ask for directions or just had to stop at dinosaur world . describe the main detours of the polar lights journey to earth .	have you ever been on a trip that took a lot of detours ? maybe you didn ’ t ask for directions or just had to stop at dinosaur world . describe the main detours of the polar lights journey to earth .
but do n't worry , this is n't the opening of a new michael bay movie . this is the journey of the polar lights . the northern and southern lights , also known as the aurora borealis and aurora australis , respectively , occur when high energy particles from the sun collide with neutral atoms in our atmosphere .	you just heard that 2013 is going to be a good year to see the aurora borealis . imagine you are taking a trip to see the polar lights and describe what factors have to be in place in order for you to see them .	you just heard that 2013 is going to be a good year to see the aurora borealis . imagine you are taking a trip to see the polar lights and describe what factors have to be in place in order for you to see them .
most of its activities are ones you 'd never be aware of , unless they suddenly stopped . the brain is made up of billions of neurons , and trillions of connections . neurons can be activated by specific stimuli or thoughts , but they are also often spontaneously active .	the brain is made up of _____	the brain is made up of _____
when researchers uncover a skeleton , some of the first clues they gather , like age and gender , lie in its morphology , which is the structure , appearance , and size of a skeleton . bones , like the clavicle , stop growing at age 25 , so a skeleton with a clavicle that has n't fully formed must be younger than that . similarly , the plates in the cranium can continue fusing up to age 40 , and sometimes beyond . by combining these with some microscopic skeletal clues , physical anthropologists can estimate an approximate age of death . meanwhile , pelvic bones reveal gender .	what is the age at which cranial sutures completely fuse in the human skull ?	what is the age at which cranial sutures completely fuse in the human skull ?
in pompeii , ordinary citizens regularly marked public walls with magic spells , prose about unrequited love , political campaign slogans , and even messages to champion their favorite gladiators . some , including the greek philosopher plutarch , pushed back , deeming graffiti ridiculous and pointless . but it was n't until the 5th century that the roots of the modern concept of vandalism were planted .	the greek philosopher plutarch :	the greek philosopher plutarch :
an enduring myth says we use only 10 % of our brain , the other 90 % standing idly by for spare capacity . hucksters promised to unlock that hidden potential with methods `` based on neuroscience , '' but all they really unlock is your wallet .	what is the isoelectric state ?	what is the isoelectric state ?
a clump of bacteria drains the nutrients and color from the fruit 's cells making that yellow halo . it then moves outward , leaving a black spot of dead cells in its wake . each spot , which could contain hundreds of thousands of microbes is actually caused by a combination of microbial attack and the host defending itself . for example , this is the bacterial pathogen pseudomonas syringae .	when you see a strawberry with a fluffy , mushy spot you know that this spot is probably caused by a :	when you see a strawberry with a fluffy , mushy spot you know that this spot is probably caused by a :
the way an elder sister might speak to a younger brother . '' unfortunately , it was the last thing she ever said to him because she never saw him again . he did not survive .	have you ever said anything you 've regretted ? how did you deal with it ?	have you ever said anything you 've regretted ? how did you deal with it ?
but according to the principles of evolution , groups that have a relative advantage tend to grow until that advantage disappears . if people were only fighting and competing throughout human evolution , natural selection would lead to more lefties being the ones that made it until there were so many of them , that it was no longer a rare asset . so in a purely competitive world , 50 % of the population would be left-handed .	if people were only fighting and competing throughout evolution , natural selection would have led _____ .	if people were only fighting and competing throughout evolution , natural selection would have led _____ .
to understand the difference between them , we can use the metaphor of two broken thermometers . an unreliable thermometer gives you a different reading each time you take your temperature , and the reliable but invalid thermometer is consistently ten degrees too hot . validity also depends on accurate interpretations of results . if people say results of a test mean something they do n't , that test may have a validity problem . just as we would n't expect a ruler to tell us how much an elephant weighs , or what it had for breakfast , we ca n't expect standardized tests alone to reliably tell us how smart someone is , how diplomats will handle a tough situation , or how brave a firefighter might turn out to be .	if a scale provides reliable but invalid results , which of the following is possible ?	if a scale provides reliable but invalid results , which of the following is possible ?
and while three of these ladies show facial features found in ancient iberian art , a nod to picasso 's spanish heritage , the faces of the two on the right closely resemble african masks . created in 1907 after hundreds of sketches and studies , `` les demoiselles d'avignon '' has been considered the first truly 20th century masterpiece , breaking with many previously held notions in art . it was at once aggressive and abstract , distorted yet primal in its raw geometry , a new artistic language with new forms , colors , and meanings .	what is the title of the painting called the first truly masterpiece of the 20th century ?	what is the title of the painting called the first truly masterpiece of the 20th century ?
first of all , you are right , change does slow down as we age , but second , you 're wrong , because it does n't slow nearly as much as we think . at every age , from 18 to 68 in our data set , people vastly underestimated how much change they would experience over the next 10 years . we call this the `` end of history '' illusion .	briefly describe gilbert 's experiment and how it brought him to believe that people underestimate the amount of change they will experience in their lifetimes .	briefly describe gilbert 's experiment and how it brought him to believe that people underestimate the amount of change they will experience in their lifetimes .
how do you get what you want using just your words ? aristotle set out to answer exactly that question over 2,000 years ago with the treatise on rhetoric .	how do you persuade others and to what end ( s ) ?	how do you persuade others and to what end ( s ) ?
`` that 's right . we 're reenacting galileo 's experiment , but with matter and antimatter instead of two objects made of matter . '' `` so what 's going to happen ?	matter and antimatter physical properties are very similar . masses , charges and internal properties have been measured to be the same ( to a given precision ) on absolute value . how can we then differentiate matter from antimatter ?	matter and antimatter physical properties are very similar . masses , charges and internal properties have been measured to be the same ( to a given precision ) on absolute value . how can we then differentiate matter from antimatter ?
`` that 's right . we 're reenacting galileo 's experiment , but with matter and antimatter instead of two objects made of matter . '' `` so what 's going to happen ?	what happens if a matter particle meets its antimatter counterpart ?	what happens if a matter particle meets its antimatter counterpart ?
`` that 's right . we 're reenacting galileo 's experiment , but with matter and antimatter instead of two objects made of matter . '' `` so what 's going to happen ?	what is the antimatter counterpart of an electron ( the particle that orbits the nucleus in an atom made of matter ) ?	what is the antimatter counterpart of an electron ( the particle that orbits the nucleus in an atom made of matter ) ?
what about the purges and executions of other socialist and anarchist parties , their old allies ? what about the tambov rebellion , where peasants , resisting grain confiscation , were killed with poison gas ? or sending the army to crush the workers in kronstadt , who were demanding democratic self-management ?	who were the main participants in the kronsdadt rebellion ?	who were the main participants in the kronsdadt rebellion ?
this part of the process changes as technology evolves . but focus groups have remained largely the same for decades . perhaps when it comes to the big , important questions , there 's no substitute for people genuinely interacting with each other .	focus groups are a technique of _____________ research .	focus groups are a technique of _____________ research .
this part of the process changes as technology evolves . but focus groups have remained largely the same for decades . perhaps when it comes to the big , important questions , there 's no substitute for people genuinely interacting with each other .	focus groups are used :	focus groups are used :
this part of the process changes as technology evolves . but focus groups have remained largely the same for decades . perhaps when it comes to the big , important questions , there 's no substitute for people genuinely interacting with each other .	list several ways focus groups complement research done with surveys .	list several ways focus groups complement research done with surveys .
but along with commodities , these routes also enabled the movement of traditions , innovations , ideologies and languages . originating in india , buddhism migrated to china and japan to become the dominant religion there . islam spread from the arabian penninsula into south asia , blending with native beliefs and leading to new faiths , like sikhism .	what religion makes it way from india along silk roads to china ?	what religion makes it way from india along silk roads to china ?
but the announcement brought thousands of east berliners to the border crossing points in the wall , forcing the surprised guards to open the gates immediately . rejoicing crowds poured into west berlin as people from both sides danced atop the wall . and others began to demolish it with whatever tools they could find .	the wall was built to :	the wall was built to :
but the announcement brought thousands of east berliners to the border crossing points in the wall , forcing the surprised guards to open the gates immediately . rejoicing crowds poured into west berlin as people from both sides danced atop the wall . and others began to demolish it with whatever tools they could find .	the berlin wall :	the berlin wall :
but the announcement brought thousands of east berliners to the border crossing points in the wall , forcing the surprised guards to open the gates immediately . rejoicing crowds poured into west berlin as people from both sides danced atop the wall . and others began to demolish it with whatever tools they could find .	discuss some of the design strategies used by the soviet government when constructing the berlin wall . how did this change over time ? why do you think this was the case ?	discuss some of the design strategies used by the soviet government when constructing the berlin wall . how did this change over time ? why do you think this was the case ?
at first , the protein may be useless , or even harmful , but more mutations can change the shape of the protein . the protein may start doing something useful , something that makes an organism healthier , stronger , better able to reproduce . scientists have found these new genes at work in many parts of animal bodies .	how may we have evolved to be able to smell more odors ? choose the best description .	how may we have evolved to be able to smell more odors ? choose the best description .
as usual , animals figured this one out long before humans . polar bears , groundhogs , even birds like grouse all make snow burrows to stay warm . and even before that , plants were tucking into snow to avoid death by freezing .	what is a way you could make your igloo even warmer without building a fire or adding an artificial heat source ?	what is a way you could make your igloo even warmer without building a fire or adding an artificial heat source ?
and somehow , this tradition survived long after belief in these spirits had faded away . many superstitions common today in countries from russia to ireland are thought to be remnants of the pagan religions that christianity replaced . but not all superstitions are religious .	many common superstitions come from history of :	many common superstitions come from history of :
they 're finally initiated into the temple having restored balance to the kingdom . many elements in this peculiar fairytale were inspired by mozart 's involvement in freemasonry , a network of fraternal organizations throughout europe . much of their history , symbolism , and ritual came from the middle ages .	mozart was involved in a fraternal organization called :	mozart was involved in a fraternal organization called :
but for the founders of the american republic , there was no higher authority beyond the people themselves . and so impeachment was adopted in the united states as a power of congress applying to any civil officers , up to and including the president . although demands for impeachment can come from any members of the public , only the house of representatives has the power to actually initiate the process .	where did impeachment originate , and how does it differ in the united states ?	where did impeachment originate , and how does it differ in the united states ?
jeong kim , president of lucent technologies , says , `` people who are the smartest sometimes do n't realize their full potential , because things get too easy , so they do n't push themselves hard . '' after a talk i gave at one of the world 's top 10 business schools , a man came up to me and said , `` you know , when i got my mba here a few years ago , i was one of the smartest people in the class . i thought i had it made .	the man who was one of the smartest in his mba class achieved no success . why ?	the man who was one of the smartest in his mba class achieved no success . why ?
did peace return to rome and augustus became the emperor . virgil aimed to capture this sense of a new era and of the great sacrifices that the romans had endured . he wanted to give the romans a fresh sense of their origins , their past , and their potential . by connecting the founding of rome to the mythological stories that his audience knew so well , virgil was able to link his hero aeneas to the character of augustus .	how could an understanding of history help the romans develop a sense of their own identity ?	how could an understanding of history help the romans develop a sense of their own identity ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar lawn signs sprouting everywhere . round-the-clock ads on radio and television . the phone rings .	there seems to be so much on television , the radio , the internet , and around town ( billboards , posters , flyers , etc . ) about which candidate to vote for . do you get tired of all the media surrounding the presidential election ? why ?	there seems to be so much on television , the radio , the internet , and around town ( billboards , posters , flyers , etc . ) about which candidate to vote for . do you get tired of all the media surrounding the presidential election ? why ?
not only would it have major impacts on ecosystems worldwide , and be a loss of beautiful biodiversity , but there is so much we still have to learn from these creatures that might be beneficial to human health and well-being . take the gastric-brooding frog . if we ’ d had more time to study it , maybe we could have learned more about how it turns off stomach acid production , potentially revealing some insights that could help humans with gi problems .	why do gastric brooding frogs have to stop eating during pregnancy ?	why do gastric brooding frogs have to stop eating during pregnancy ?
not only would it have major impacts on ecosystems worldwide , and be a loss of beautiful biodiversity , but there is so much we still have to learn from these creatures that might be beneficial to human health and well-being . take the gastric-brooding frog . if we ’ d had more time to study it , maybe we could have learned more about how it turns off stomach acid production , potentially revealing some insights that could help humans with gi problems .	when the growing frog babies start constricting the mother frog 's breathing , what does she do ?	when the growing frog babies start constricting the mother frog 's breathing , what does she do ?
not only would it have major impacts on ecosystems worldwide , and be a loss of beautiful biodiversity , but there is so much we still have to learn from these creatures that might be beneficial to human health and well-being . take the gastric-brooding frog . if we ’ d had more time to study it , maybe we could have learned more about how it turns off stomach acid production , potentially revealing some insights that could help humans with gi problems .	what made the gastric brooding frog go extinct ?	what made the gastric brooding frog go extinct ?
( laughter ) the driver in front , she needs to learn how to drive . now these days , kids need a small dosage of danger . and in this kind of occasion , they learn to help each other .	tezuka mentions that children these days need a small dose of ___________ ?	tezuka mentions that children these days need a small dose of ___________ ?
but it 's not just a personality type that shows up in advice columns . it 's actually a set of traits classified and studied by psychologists . the psychological definition of narcissism is an inflated , grandiose self-image . to varying degrees , narcissists think they 're better looking , smarter , and more important than other people , and that they deserve special treatment . psychologists recognize two forms of narcissism as a personality trait : grandiose and vulnerable narcissism .	can you think of any celebrities who seem narcissistic ? what makes you think that ? do you think their narcissism hurts their popularity or actually helps them to remain popular ?	can you think of any celebrities who seem narcissistic ? what makes you think that ? do you think their narcissism hurts their popularity or actually helps them to remain popular ?
bees talk about food , prairie dogs talk about predators , and crabs talk about themselves . human language stands alone due to the powerful combination of grammar and productivity , on top of discreteness and displacement . the human brain can take a finite number of elements and create an infinite number of messages .	discreteness is one characteristic of human language . discreteness means :	discreteness is one characteristic of human language . discreteness means :
she must serve the goddess for at least the next 30 years . for the first ten years of licinia 's service , she 's considered in training , learning how to be a vestal virgin . her most important duty is keeping vigil over the flame of vesta , the virgin goddess of the hearth .	what is the minimum length of service for a vestal virgin ?	what is the minimum length of service for a vestal virgin ?
she must serve the goddess for at least the next 30 years . for the first ten years of licinia 's service , she 's considered in training , learning how to be a vestal virgin . her most important duty is keeping vigil over the flame of vesta , the virgin goddess of the hearth .	what items is a vestal virgin buried with ?	what items is a vestal virgin buried with ?
but , if you open the sandwich and place the two slices side by side , you get twice the surface area . the gorter and grendel experiment is basically the same idea . the open sandwich is the monolayer formed by extracted cellular lipids spreading out into a sheet .	what were gorter and grendel trying to prove ?	what were gorter and grendel trying to prove ?
unfortunately , they 're not sure whether you qualify , so they decide to give you all a test . through its universal translator , the alien guarding you tells you the following : you will be placed in a single-file line facing forward in size order so that each of you can see everyone lined up ahead of you . you will not be able to look behind you or step out of line .	which of the following things are you not prevented from doing ?	which of the following things are you not prevented from doing ?
this hormonal notification from the thyroid gets the heart pumping more efficiently , and makes our cells break down nutrients faster . when you need more energy , the thyroid helps by sending out hormones to increase metabolism . ultimately , the thyroid allows our cells to use energy , grow and reproduce .	the thyroid secretes hormones that :	the thyroid secretes hormones that :
but the revolution would not end there . some leaders , not content with just changing the government , sought to completely transform french society -- its religion , its street names , even its calendar . as multiple factions formed , the extremist jacobins lead by maximilien robespierre launched a reign of terror to suppress the slightest dissent , executing over 20,000 people before the jacobin 's own downfall .	changes to the calendar , street names , and religion were examples of :	changes to the calendar , street names , and religion were examples of :
in both of these scenarios , the star expels an unparalleled amount of energy , as well as a great deal of matter . in fact , all atoms heavier than nickel , including elements like gold and silver , only form in supernova reactions . in type 2 supernovae , about 1 % of the energy consists of photons , which we know of as light , while 99 % radiates out as neutrinos , the elementary particles that are known for rarely interacting with anything . starting from the center of the star , the exploding matter takes tens of minutes , or even hours , or in rare cases , several days , to reach and break through the surface of the star .	what is the main difference between type 1 and a type 2 supernova ?	what is the main difference between type 1 and a type 2 supernova ?
it doesn ’ t look like a scene you could make at home with your own legos . compare that to scenes from the lego movie , where everything — gunshots , smoke , water , fire , explosions , clouds , even mud on the camera lens — are all made up of lego pieces as they look in real life . “ we respected the hardness of the plastic by not necessarily bending on the elbow , which you can ’ t do on a real lego minifig. ” that means that any movement you see onscreen simulates the adjustment or replacement of an individual lego piece .	name three stylistic choices in the lego movie that replicate or echo the stylistic choices of the fan-made brickfilms ?	name three stylistic choices in the lego movie that replicate or echo the stylistic choices of the fan-made brickfilms ?
dmitri died without a nobel prize in 1907 , but he wound up receiving a much more exclusive honor . in 1955 , scientists at uc berkeley successfully created 17 atoms of a previously undiscovered element . this element filled an empty spot in the perodic table at number 101 , and was officially named mendelevium in 1963 . there have been well over 800 nobel prize winners , but only 15 scientists have an element named after them . so the next time you stare at a periodic table , whether it 's on the wall of a university classroom or on a five-dollar coffee mug , dmitri mendeleev , the architect of the periodic table , will be staring back .	how many scientists have an element named after them ?	how many scientists have an element named after them ?
he noticed that the higher he went , the thicker the branches were , not the case with most trees . he found moist mats of soil many inches thick , made from fallen needles , bark , other plant debris and dust from the sky piled on the tops of the large branches . he even found reiterations : new redwood tree trunks growing out from the main trunk .	soil mats form on the large branches over long periods of time . explain the importance of these soil mats in the redwood canopy ecosystem .	soil mats form on the large branches over long periods of time . explain the importance of these soil mats in the redwood canopy ecosystem .
specialized receptors can recognize molecules that signal the presence of dangerous microbes or insects . in response , the immune system initiates a battery of defensive maneuvers . to prevent more pathogens from making their way inside , the waxy cuticle thickens and cell walls get stronger .	once the plant immune system has detected the presence of invaders , what defensive maneuvers are set up ?	once the plant immune system has detected the presence of invaders , what defensive maneuvers are set up ?
immediately , you also realize that since the norwegian is at the end of the street , there 's only one house next to him , which must be the one with the blue walls in clue fourteen . clue five says the green-walled house 's owner drinks coffee . it ca n't be the center house since you already know its owner drinks milk , but it also ca n't be the second house , which you know has blue walls .	at what point was it possible to confidently claim that the german lived in the green house ?	at what point was it possible to confidently claim that the german lived in the green house ?
we 're either going to kill ourselves by crashing into the nearest wall at super speed or , worse , if we 're indestructible , we 've essentially turned our bodies into missiles that destroy everything in our path . so , long distance travel at 25,000 miles per hour would leave us burning up , covered in bugs , and leaves no time to react . what about short bursts to a location we can see with no obstacles in between ?	why wouldn ’ t a superhero have time to react to things or situations when traveling at 25,000 miles per hour ?	why wouldn ’ t a superhero have time to react to things or situations when traveling at 25,000 miles per hour ?
he chats to them . and the safe is open . he fiddles with all the knobs .	when you add in the fact that the number above and below the number you check can open the safe , how many combinations do you have ?	when you add in the fact that the number above and below the number you check can open the safe , how many combinations do you have ?
the problem is , hardly anybody today treats video content in a 4 to 3 ratio . see , this whole problem started when people wanted to watch movies from the theater in the comfort of their own homes . movie screens are considerably larger than our home television . more important , the screen is completely different rectangle and ca n't mathematically fit on our tv screens without manipulation .	can you think of a time when you watched a movie on your television and you did n't enjoy it as much as when you had seen it in the theater ? did this have anything to do with aspect ratio ? if this has never happened to you , explain how you prefer to view movies ( in the theater or in your home ) . why ?	can you think of a time when you watched a movie on your television and you did n't enjoy it as much as when you had seen it in the theater ? did this have anything to do with aspect ratio ? if this has never happened to you , explain how you prefer to view movies ( in the theater or in your home ) . why ?
most of the time , if you see an apostrophe hovering helpfully near a word , it 's trying to mark possession or contraction . first , let 's look at how the apostrophe marks possession . as you can see , the placement of this punctuation mark can really change the meaning of a sentence . `` those robots in the sand are my sister 's . ''	the placement of an apostrophe can really change the meaning of a sentence . which of the following sentences demonstrates the power of apostrophe placement ?	the placement of an apostrophe can really change the meaning of a sentence . which of the following sentences demonstrates the power of apostrophe placement ?
but later , when the launchpad is just one more arbritrary place down there on earth 's spinning surface , speeds are given relative to the idealized , non-spinning pinpoint center of earth . on their way to the moon , apollo astronauts had a hard time answering the question , `` how fast are you moving ? '' speed away from earth was one thing , and speed toward the moon was quite another . that 's because the earth and the moon move relative to one another .	when apollo astronauts traveled from earth to the moon , their speed was measured relative to what ?	when apollo astronauts traveled from earth to the moon , their speed was measured relative to what ?
can-can can-can can can can can can-can . here , the word can comes in many guises . there 's can-can , the flamboyant dance , can , that means able to , and can , figuratively meaning to outperform .	what meanings can the word 'can ' have ?	what meanings can the word 'can ' have ?
can-can can-can can can can can can-can . here , the word can comes in many guises . there 's can-can , the flamboyant dance , can , that means able to , and can , figuratively meaning to outperform .	sentences with one word never make any sense .	sentences with one word never make any sense .
can-can can-can can can can can can-can . here , the word can comes in many guises . there 's can-can , the flamboyant dance , can , that means able to , and can , figuratively meaning to outperform .	can you think up some one-word sentences that make sense ?	can you think up some one-word sentences that make sense ?
it turns out that macaroni salad is actually a mixture of mixtures because many of the ingredients , like mayo and mustard , are already mixtures themselves , which is nice for us because if we look closely , we 'll the see the three main types of mixtures that exist . the size of the particles in a mixture determines the type of mixture . on one end of the scale is a suspension , like our muddy water example .	what is not characteristic of a mixture ?	what is not characteristic of a mixture ?
though the drastic measure was only marginally successful , it was n't long before other port cities followed suit . in 1397 , the official period of isolation imposed on ships and crews was set at forty days . although it did little to protect ports from infection , the directive stuck .	in 1397 , what was the official period of isolation imposed on ships and crews ?	in 1397 , what was the official period of isolation imposed on ships and crews ?
and what 's this ? sophocles has added a third actor . will this one-upmanship never end ?	who added a second actor to greek tragedy ?	who added a second actor to greek tragedy ?
and as the number of bits needing to be processed grows exponentially , computer designers face a constant struggle between size , cost , and speed . like us , computers have short-term memory for immediate tasks , and long-term memory for more permanent storage . when you run a program , your operating system allocates area within the short-term memory for performing those instructions .	which of the following is the fastest memory ?	which of the following is the fastest memory ?
and as the number of bits needing to be processed grows exponentially , computer designers face a constant struggle between size , cost , and speed . like us , computers have short-term memory for immediate tasks , and long-term memory for more permanent storage . when you run a program , your operating system allocates area within the short-term memory for performing those instructions .	what is the fundamental memory element in flash memory ?	what is the fundamental memory element in flash memory ?
and as the number of bits needing to be processed grows exponentially , computer designers face a constant struggle between size , cost , and speed . like us , computers have short-term memory for immediate tasks , and long-term memory for more permanent storage . when you run a program , your operating system allocates area within the short-term memory for performing those instructions .	give examples of an outdated memory or storage device . what do you think is the main reason they are outdated ?	give examples of an outdated memory or storage device . what do you think is the main reason they are outdated ?
eye surgeon sir harold ridley was treating world war ii casualties when he noticed that acrylic plastic from a shattered aircraft cockpit had become lodged in a pilot 's eyes without triggering an adverse reaction . this led him to propose surgically implanting artificial lenses into the eye to replace cataracts . and despite initial resistance , the method became standard practice by the 1980s .	an accident led to the discovery of intraocular lenses being used in cataract surgery . what other accidents have led to major advances in medicine ?	an accident led to the discovery of intraocular lenses being used in cataract surgery . what other accidents have led to major advances in medicine ?
bakers are mad scientists . when you slide the pan into the oven , you 're setting off a series of chemical reactions that transform one substance , dough , into another , cookies . when the dough reaches 92 degrees fahrenheit , the butter inside melts , causing the dough to start spreading out . butter is an emulsion , or mixture of two substances that do n't want to stay together , in this case , water and fat , along with some dairy solids that help hold them together .	what ’ s the first change that occurs in your cookie dough after you put the pan in the oven ?	what ’ s the first change that occurs in your cookie dough after you put the pan in the oven ?
i talk about in my lectures , i explain that beryllium chloride the molecule that has three atoms , two chlorine atoms and one beryllium atom , has the three atoms arranged in the row , so it is a straight molecule so called linear molecule . i have never seen beryllium chloride . chemists use it on x-ray defractometers because actually it is so lightweight it is actually got atomic number 4 .	why is beryllium foil is used in radiography ?	why is beryllium foil is used in radiography ?
i talk about in my lectures , i explain that beryllium chloride the molecule that has three atoms , two chlorine atoms and one beryllium atom , has the three atoms arranged in the row , so it is a straight molecule so called linear molecule . i have never seen beryllium chloride . chemists use it on x-ray defractometers because actually it is so lightweight it is actually got atomic number 4 .	what is the main problem encountered when working with beryllium dust ?	what is the main problem encountered when working with beryllium dust ?
i talk about in my lectures , i explain that beryllium chloride the molecule that has three atoms , two chlorine atoms and one beryllium atom , has the three atoms arranged in the row , so it is a straight molecule so called linear molecule . i have never seen beryllium chloride . chemists use it on x-ray defractometers because actually it is so lightweight it is actually got atomic number 4 .	magnesium chloride and calcium chloride are ionic compounds , like lithium chloride and sodium chloride . however , beryllium chloride is a covalent compound ( with a linear cl-be-cl bond ) . why ?	magnesium chloride and calcium chloride are ionic compounds , like lithium chloride and sodium chloride . however , beryllium chloride is a covalent compound ( with a linear cl-be-cl bond ) . why ?
it 's also crucial to separate fact from opinion . words like think , likely , or probably mean that the outlet is being careful or , worse , taking a guess . and watch out for reports that rely on anonymous sources .	which isn ’ t a word that shows the outlet isn ’ t completely sure about a particular statement ?	which isn ’ t a word that shows the outlet isn ’ t completely sure about a particular statement ?
if he can not find rooms for them , the hotel will lose out on an infinite amount of money , and he will surely lose his job . luckily , he remembers that around the year 300 b.c.e. , euclid proved that there is an infinite quantity of prime numbers . so , to accomplish this seemingly impossible task of finding infinite beds for infinite buses of infinite weary travelers , the night manager assigns every current guest to the first prime number , 2 , raised to the power of their current room number .	what did euclid prove about prime numbers around 300 bce ?	what did euclid prove about prime numbers around 300 bce ?
daniel would obviously propose to keep all the gold and eliza 's one vote would not be enough to override him , so eliza wants to avoid this situation at all costs . now we move to the previous decision point with three pirates left and charlotte making the proposal . everyone knows that if she 's outvoted , the decision moves to daniel , who will then get all the gold while eliza gets nothing .	what happens if a proposal is voted down ?	what happens if a proposal is voted down ?
he argued that if mary already knew all the physical facts about color vision , and experiencing color still teaches her something new , then mental states , like color perception , ca n't be completely described by physical facts . the mary 's room thought experiment describes what philosophers call the knowledge argument , that there are non-physical properties and knowledge which can only be discovered through conscious experience . the knowledge argument contradicts the theory of physicalism , which says that everything , including mental states , has a physical explanation .	which philosophical theory states that there are non-physical properties and knowledge that can only be discovered through conscious experience ?	which philosophical theory states that there are non-physical properties and knowledge that can only be discovered through conscious experience ?
he argued that if mary already knew all the physical facts about color vision , and experiencing color still teaches her something new , then mental states , like color perception , ca n't be completely described by physical facts . the mary 's room thought experiment describes what philosophers call the knowledge argument , that there are non-physical properties and knowledge which can only be discovered through conscious experience . the knowledge argument contradicts the theory of physicalism , which says that everything , including mental states , has a physical explanation .	briefly define and contrast physicalism and the knowledge argument . which one is more strongly supported by the thought experiment ?	briefly define and contrast physicalism and the knowledge argument . which one is more strongly supported by the thought experiment ?
from there , the plant spread further still , helping drive tea 's rapid growth as an everyday commodity . today , tea is the second most consumed beverage in the world after water , and from sugary turkish rize tea , to salty tibetan butter tea , there are almost as many ways of preparing the beverage as there are cultures on the globe .	when was tea first consumed as a beverage ?	when was tea first consumed as a beverage ?
second , i propose increasing the overall population of the school . more students equals more collisions . by increasing the number of particles available for collision , we create an environment where more collisions can take place .	in this analogy , adding more students is analogous to :	in this analogy , adding more students is analogous to :
and let 's just say there are a lot of programs involved before you even see the button on the screen light up when you clicked it . so , just the simple task of clicking your mouse means visiting all of the critical components of your computer 's architecture : peripherals , the basic input-output system , the cpu , programs , and memory , and not one gremlin .	the critical components of your computer ’ s architecture are :	the critical components of your computer ’ s architecture are :
d2 : that 's why working with people with brain lesions is so important to neuroscience . it adds some causal evidence that a brain area might be required for a behavior . same with brain simulation studies . if stimulating a brain area causes a behavior , then that 's good evidence that the brain region is involved in that behavior . so like studies with cats in the 1950s showed that stimulating a small almond-shaped area deep in the brain called the amygdala leads to aggressive or predatory behaviors .	patient hm had what brain area removed that caused him to lose the ability to form new memories ?	patient hm had what brain area removed that caused him to lose the ability to form new memories ?
if i wrap that product or idea in a simple phrase that 's easy to remember and becomes part of your everyday speech , then every time you hear or say those few words , your brain connects them to the product . so just do it , think different , and enjoy the power of the catchphrase . and technical codes , junior has three sons : camera angles , framing and lighting .	what are ways you have noticed different types of media shaping the way you think about the world ? do you think this is positive or negative ?	what are ways you have noticed different types of media shaping the way you think about the world ? do you think this is positive or negative ?
if i wrap that product or idea in a simple phrase that 's easy to remember and becomes part of your everyday speech , then every time you hear or say those few words , your brain connects them to the product . so just do it , think different , and enjoy the power of the catchphrase . and technical codes , junior has three sons : camera angles , framing and lighting .	why do companies invest billions of dollars in advertising ? do you think it makes a big difference ?	why do companies invest billions of dollars in advertising ? do you think it makes a big difference ?
but beryllium is very poisonous so if you do use these beryllium windows , you have to be careful not to lick your fingers . well good chemists shouldn ’ t lick their fingers anyway .	in this video , professor poliakoff reminds us of an important rule in the lab : “ good chemists never…	in this video , professor poliakoff reminds us of an important rule in the lab : “ good chemists never…
alongside traditional warfare , our future will include cyberwarfare , remotely fighting our enemies through the use of a new class of weapons , including computer viruses and programs to alter the enemy 's ability to operate . and not only is cyberwarfare not covered by existing legal frameworks , but the question of what exactly constitutes cyberwarfare is still highly debated . so , how can we deal with cyberwarfare if we ca n't even agree on what it means ? one way forward is to envision situations where new international laws may be needed .	how many global cyberwarfare treatises exist today ?	how many global cyberwarfare treatises exist today ?
alongside traditional warfare , our future will include cyberwarfare , remotely fighting our enemies through the use of a new class of weapons , including computer viruses and programs to alter the enemy 's ability to operate . and not only is cyberwarfare not covered by existing legal frameworks , but the question of what exactly constitutes cyberwarfare is still highly debated . so , how can we deal with cyberwarfare if we ca n't even agree on what it means ? one way forward is to envision situations where new international laws may be needed .	what is the definition of cyberwarfare ?	what is the definition of cyberwarfare ?
but the battle of gettysburg turns out to be the turning point of the civil war . now , robert e. lee is probably the most famous american general , widely respected . but at gettysburg , he made some crucial mistakes , probably the most important was in ordering pickett 's charge .	what was one of the most consequential mistakes the robert e. lee made at gettysburg ?	what was one of the most consequential mistakes the robert e. lee made at gettysburg ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar what do horror movies and comedies have in common ? the two genres might seem totally different , but the reason they 're both so popular is perhaps because what they have in common : their use of dramatic irony .	what do horror films and comedies have in common ?	what do horror films and comedies have in common ?
but this transylvanian noble , neither the first fictional vampire nor the most popular of his time , may have remained buried in obscurity if not for a twist of fate . dracula 's first appearance was in bram stoker 's 1897 novel of the same name . but that was far from the beginning of vampire myths .	many people incorrectly believe the vlad iii dracula was a huge inspiration for stoker in writing his novel , but actually he was only minor and tied primarily to his famous villain ’ s name . why do you think perceptions about this fact are often wrong ?	many people incorrectly believe the vlad iii dracula was a huge inspiration for stoker in writing his novel , but actually he was only minor and tied primarily to his famous villain ’ s name . why do you think perceptions about this fact are often wrong ?
in other words , big eddies transfer their energy to smaller eddies , which do likewise at other scales . examples of this include jupiter 's great red spot , cloud formations and interstellar dust particles . in 2004 , using the hubble space telescope , scientists saw the eddies of a distant cloud of dust and gas around a star , and it reminded them of van gogh 's `` starry night . ''	what are some examples of turbulence ?	what are some examples of turbulence ?
it 's not ideal for the human eye to have a blind spot where the optic nerve exits the retina , but that 's how it developed , starting from a simple photoreceptor cell . in retrospect , it would have been much more advantageous for humans to crave nutrients and vitamins rather than just calories . but over the millenia , during which our ancestors evolved , calories were scarce , and there was nothing to anticipate that this would later change so quickly . so , evolution proceeds blindly , step by step by step , creating all of the diversity we see in the natural world .	many organisms , such as the anglerfish , exhibit large degrees of sexual dimorphism , where the male and female of the same species differ greatly in size and/or other characteristics . can you think of some reasons why such a situation would have evolved or how it is beneficial ?	many organisms , such as the anglerfish , exhibit large degrees of sexual dimorphism , where the male and female of the same species differ greatly in size and/or other characteristics . can you think of some reasons why such a situation would have evolved or how it is beneficial ?
koch developed a technique to grow pure cultures , and through a series of experiments , definitively proved that a specific bacterium directly cause disease . major contributions to germ theory also came from prolific scientist louis pasteur , whose study of microorganisms led to the development of the first vaccines . by challenging assumptions with data-driven research , these scientists discredited an age-old theory and sparked a revolution that was incredibly beneficial to public health . but all of this raises the question , what are the widely held scientific beliefs of today that our descendants will find ridiculous ?	germ theory has revolutionized public health . what are some ways that humankind has benefitted from this discovery ?	germ theory has revolutionized public health . what are some ways that humankind has benefitted from this discovery ?
figuring similar things are made in similar ways , he argued the ancient teeth came from ancient sharks in waters that formed rock around the teeth and became mountains . rock layers were once layers of watery sediment , which would lay out horizontally , one atop another , oldest up to newest . if layers were deformed , tilted , cut by a fault or a canyon , that change came after the layer formed .	imagine the following multilayered rock face : the rock layers ’ colors correspond with each other on both sides of a fault , but the layers west of the fault are 2 feet higher than the east side ’ s layers , which are tilted 30 degrees . which of the following was the first thing to happen after the layers were laid down horizontally ?	imagine the following multilayered rock face : the rock layers ’ colors correspond with each other on both sides of a fault , but the layers west of the fault are 2 feet higher than the east side ’ s layers , which are tilted 30 degrees . which of the following was the first thing to happen after the layers were laid down horizontally ?
figuring similar things are made in similar ways , he argued the ancient teeth came from ancient sharks in waters that formed rock around the teeth and became mountains . rock layers were once layers of watery sediment , which would lay out horizontally , one atop another , oldest up to newest . if layers were deformed , tilted , cut by a fault or a canyon , that change came after the layer formed .	stratigraphy is useful for putting together a timeline of life forms found in rock layers , but what other facts or laws do you need to make that timeline as useful as possible ? what does stratigraphy not provide ?	stratigraphy is useful for putting together a timeline of life forms found in rock layers , but what other facts or laws do you need to make that timeline as useful as possible ? what does stratigraphy not provide ?
what is the shape of a molecule ? well , a molecule is mostly empty space . almost all of its mass is concentrated in the extremely dense nuclei of its atoms .	by volume , a molecule is mostly ________ .	by volume , a molecule is mostly ________ .
the word inaugurate probably begins with the latin word avis , meaning bird . in ancient rome , avis was combined with the latin verb garrire , to talk . the two words together made augur , literally one who talks to birds . figuratively , however , augur was the name given to a specific religious official , a type of soothsayer or prophet , who foretold events by studying the behavior of birds .	why might birds have been of particular interest to the ancient romans ?	why might birds have been of particular interest to the ancient romans ?
what about lightning , the northern lights , or the tail of a comet ? all of those things , and many others , in fact 99.9 % of the universe , are made of plasma . plasma is a state of matter drastically different from the more familiar forms .	how much of the universe is made of plasma ?	how much of the universe is made of plasma ?
but when the moon is higher up , it 's surrounded by the vast darkness of the night sky and looks tiny by comparison . another possibility is the famous ponzo illusion . if you 've ever tried to draw in perspective , you know that the closer something is to the horizon , the smaller you should draw it .	which sentence best describes the ebbinghaus illusion ?	which sentence best describes the ebbinghaus illusion ?
but when the moon is higher up , it 's surrounded by the vast darkness of the night sky and looks tiny by comparison . another possibility is the famous ponzo illusion . if you 've ever tried to draw in perspective , you know that the closer something is to the horizon , the smaller you should draw it .	which sentence best describes the ponzo illusion ?	which sentence best describes the ponzo illusion ?
but when the moon is higher up , it 's surrounded by the vast darkness of the night sky and looks tiny by comparison . another possibility is the famous ponzo illusion . if you 've ever tried to draw in perspective , you know that the closer something is to the horizon , the smaller you should draw it .	why are the ebbinghaus and ponzo illusions , even if taken together , inadequate for explaining the moon illusion ?	why are the ebbinghaus and ponzo illusions , even if taken together , inadequate for explaining the moon illusion ?
the bark covering tree trunks is full of lignin , a rigid web of compounds that 's tough to chew and highly impermeable to pathogens . leaves are protected by a waxy cuticle that deters insects and microbes . some plants go a step further with painful structures to warn would-be predators .	leaves of most plants are protected against bacteria and fungi by :	leaves of most plants are protected against bacteria and fungi by :
that 's when you , my trusty partner , hold me back , then i leave . you give magritte a cup of coffee and keep grilling him to see if this painting would hold up in court . viewers can provide a more detailed and accurate description of a situation by articulating what is seen and what is not seen .	can you think of a specific example in your professional life that would benefit from an enhanced ability to communicate a complex problem ?	can you think of a specific example in your professional life that would benefit from an enhanced ability to communicate a complex problem ?
that 's when you , my trusty partner , hold me back , then i leave . you give magritte a cup of coffee and keep grilling him to see if this painting would hold up in court . viewers can provide a more detailed and accurate description of a situation by articulating what is seen and what is not seen .	how can looking at art encourage perceptions of the other senses ? think about how you would describe sounds , tastes , smells , and textures contained in a painting or sculpture .	how can looking at art encourage perceptions of the other senses ? think about how you would describe sounds , tastes , smells , and textures contained in a painting or sculpture .
the climate would be much hotter , and there would be no life . so we owe our existence to aerosol particles . however , despite their importance , how aerosol particles form in the atmosphere and their effect on clouds are poorly understood . even the vapors responsible for aerosol particle formation are not well established because they 're present in only minute amounts , near one molecule per million million molecules of air .	what are aerosol particles in the atmosphere and can you suggest some of the ways they originate ? aerosol particles provide the seeds for cloud droplets . clouds cool earth 's surface by reflecting incoming sunlight and also warm it by emitting infrared radiation . however , one of these effects is larger and so , globally averaged , do clouds lead to a net warming or cooling ? give one example from your personal experience of clouds a ) cooling and b ) warming earth 's surface .	what are aerosol particles in the atmosphere and can you suggest some of the ways they originate ? aerosol particles provide the seeds for cloud droplets . clouds cool earth 's surface by reflecting incoming sunlight and also warm it by emitting infrared radiation . however , one of these effects is larger and so , globally averaged , do clouds lead to a net warming or cooling ? give one example from your personal experience of clouds a ) cooling and b ) warming earth 's surface .
but once we connect rooms b and c , there are no other connections possible , so the fourth floor down from the top is out . we know the control panel has to be as high up as possible , so let 's make our way down the pyramid . the fifth highest floor does n't work either .	consider the road network near your school and the part that has the greatest traffic . how would you redesign either the traffic light schedule , the direction of the streets ( e.g . make two-way streets one-way but wider , or make one-way streets two-way though narrower – perhaps at different times of the day ) , the addition or removal of bicycle lanes , or anything else that costs little , to make traffic flow smoother ?	consider the road network near your school and the part that has the greatest traffic . how would you redesign either the traffic light schedule , the direction of the streets ( e.g . make two-way streets one-way but wider , or make one-way streets two-way though narrower – perhaps at different times of the day ) , the addition or removal of bicycle lanes , or anything else that costs little , to make traffic flow smoother ?
segments of these trees are then grafted onto root stalk - that 's the lower section of another tree that 's been chosen from a different cultivar for its superior roots and growing ability . finally , this fusion creates a new apple tree with the desired qualities . each new plant takes up to four years before it starts producing the fruit we eat .	the way to create a copy of a desired apple tree is to :	the way to create a copy of a desired apple tree is to :
segments of these trees are then grafted onto root stalk - that 's the lower section of another tree that 's been chosen from a different cultivar for its superior roots and growing ability . finally , this fusion creates a new apple tree with the desired qualities . each new plant takes up to four years before it starts producing the fruit we eat .	contrast the desired characteristics of an apple for a farmer against those of a customer . think of one more for each that is not mentioned in the lesson .	contrast the desired characteristics of an apple for a farmer against those of a customer . think of one more for each that is not mentioned in the lesson .
the people who own these skyscrapers and rent space in them are called web hosts , but anyone can set up a web server with the right equipment a bit of know-how . there 's another part to having a website , without which we would be lost in the city with no way of finding what we need . this is the website address , which consists of domain names .	what do you need to start a website of your own ?	what do you need to start a website of your own ?
some shot in full view of west germans powerless to help them . the wall stabilized east germany 's economy by preventing its work force from leaving , but tarnished its reputation , becoming a global symbol of communist repression . as part of reconciliation with the east , the basic treaty of 1972 recognized east germany pragmatically while west germany retained its hope for eventual reunification .	how did the wall shore up the east german government in the short run and why did it become a symbol of communist repression in the long run ?	how did the wall shore up the east german government in the short run and why did it become a symbol of communist repression in the long run ?
yet , at the time , the country 's white minority colonial government sought to discredit this theory because it challenged the legitimacy of their rule . in fact , the government actively encouraged historians to produce accounts that disputed the city 's african origins . over time , however , an overwhelming body of evidence mounted , identifying great zimbabwe as an african city built by africans . during the 1960s and 70s , great zimbabwe became an important symbol for the african nationalist movement that was spreading across the continent .	how did the colonial government try to hide the fact that local africans built great zimbabwe ?	how did the colonial government try to hide the fact that local africans built great zimbabwe ?
the bottom end of the tube was then opened and water poured out into the basin until the level of the water remaining in the tube was 10.3 meters . with a gap remaining at the top , and no air having entered the tube , berti had succeeded in directly creating a stable vacuum . but even though the possibility of a vacuum had been demonstrated , not everyone was satisfied with galileo 's idea that this empty void was exerting some mysterious yet finite force on the water .	who first demonstrated a stable vacuum ?	who first demonstrated a stable vacuum ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar ever wonder where most of the food you eat every day comes from ? well , about 60 % of the food you eat is carbohydrates . as you can probably tell from its name , carbohydrates contain carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen .	on average , what percentage of the food we eat on a daily basis comes from carbohydrates ?	on average , what percentage of the food we eat on a daily basis comes from carbohydrates ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar ever wonder where most of the food you eat every day comes from ? well , about 60 % of the food you eat is carbohydrates . as you can probably tell from its name , carbohydrates contain carbon , hydrogen , and oxygen .	which organelle is ultimately responsible for breaking down carbohydrates into usable energy at the molecular level ?	which organelle is ultimately responsible for breaking down carbohydrates into usable energy at the molecular level ?
we also said this is a cell that 's going to be taking up information about vibrations in the wind . so what if we do an experiment ? we can actually blow on this and hear if we see a change .	there ’ s a lot of research on the benefits of “ hands-on ” science instruction—that is , actively engaging in experiments , versus reading about them in textbooks or watching videos of others performing experiments . what ’ s your feeling about the value of experiments in your science classes ? what ’ s the most interesting—or the most boring—experiment you ’ ve ever done , and why ?	there ’ s a lot of research on the benefits of “ hands-on ” science instruction—that is , actively engaging in experiments , versus reading about them in textbooks or watching videos of others performing experiments . what ’ s your feeling about the value of experiments in your science classes ? what ’ s the most interesting—or the most boring—experiment you ’ ve ever done , and why ?
well , at the fifth grade level , girls routinely outperform boys in every subject , including math and science , so it 's not a question of ability . the difference is in how boys and girls approach a challenge . and it does n't just end in fifth grade .	how do we raise boys and girls differently and how does that affect them as they get older ?	how do we raise boys and girls differently and how does that affect them as they get older ?
but while it may seem like both of these things have been around forever , the situation looked quite different in 1850 , with the republican party not yet existing , and support for the dominant democrats and whigs cutting across geographic divides . the collapse of this second party system was at the center of increasing regional tensions that would lead to the birth of the republican party , the rise of abraham lincoln as its leader , and a civil war that would claim over half a million lives . and if this collapse could be blamed on a single event , it would be the kansas-nebraska act of 1854 .	why did collapse of the second party system make political compromise between north and south less likely ?	why did collapse of the second party system make political compromise between north and south less likely ?
so without aerosol particles , there 'd be no clouds , and without clouds , there 'd be no fresh water . the climate would be much hotter , and there would be no life . so we owe our existence to aerosol particles .	under equilibrium conditions , the incoming solar radiation on earth is exactly balanced by the radiation emitted back out to space , and so earth 's average temperature stays constant . if you waved a magic wand and suddenly doubled the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere , less radiation would be emitted back out to space . so there would be an excess of incoming radiation and the earth would start to warm up . would it continue to warm up forever ? or do you think it would warm up for some years and eventually stop and , if so , why would the warming stop ?	under equilibrium conditions , the incoming solar radiation on earth is exactly balanced by the radiation emitted back out to space , and so earth 's average temperature stays constant . if you waved a magic wand and suddenly doubled the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere , less radiation would be emitted back out to space . so there would be an excess of incoming radiation and the earth would start to warm up . would it continue to warm up forever ? or do you think it would warm up for some years and eventually stop and , if so , why would the warming stop ?
so i thought `` enough of these thought experiments , lets build one ! '' the shape is an ellipse , and ellipses are an interesting type of shape , because they can come in a infinite number of varieties . the geometrical property of ellipses , which is why i made this table , is the fact that if you place a ball on a focus point ... ... where ever you hit it , in which ever direction i hit it , over there , over there , over there , over there , over here , it will always rebound into that pocket .	why is an ellipses in particular an interesting type of shape ?	why is an ellipses in particular an interesting type of shape ?
chemical catalysts function by lowering the activation energy -- in other words , by lowering the energy required to start a reaction . they do this by bringing two particles together and orienting them correctly in space so that the two can meet at the correct configuration and allow a reaction to take place . so , to sum up : if a future chemist wants a date for the dance , he must collide with another person and knock the books out of their hands .	what are two conditions that must be met in order for a chemical reaction to take place ?	what are two conditions that must be met in order for a chemical reaction to take place ?
actually , never ! you see , the ratio of a circle 's circumference to its diameter is what 's known as an irrational number , one that can never be expressed as a ratio of two whole numbers . you can come close , but no matter how precise the fraction is , it will always be just a tiny bit off .	the ratio of a circle 's circumference to its diameter is known as :	the ratio of a circle 's circumference to its diameter is known as :
why does it matter that there is variability in our pain brain circuits ? well , there are many treatments for pain , targeting different systems . for mild pain , non-prescription medications can act on cells where the pain signals start . other stronger pain medicines and anesthetics work by reducing the activity in pain-sensing circuits or boosting our coping system , or endorphins . some people can cope with pain using methods that involve distraction , relaxation , meditation , yoga , or strategies that can be taught , like cognitive behavioral therapy .	your pain experience and coping ________ .	your pain experience and coping ________ .
why does it matter that there is variability in our pain brain circuits ? well , there are many treatments for pain , targeting different systems . for mild pain , non-prescription medications can act on cells where the pain signals start . other stronger pain medicines and anesthetics work by reducing the activity in pain-sensing circuits or boosting our coping system , or endorphins . some people can cope with pain using methods that involve distraction , relaxation , meditation , yoga , or strategies that can be taught , like cognitive behavioral therapy .	new treatments for pain ________ .	new treatments for pain ________ .
chlorine sits in the right-hand side of the periodic table in the halogens in group , well , some people say seven , some people say seventeen . really what that says is that chlorine wants another electron to get that noble gas configuration and it will move heaven and earth to get that electron ! so during the first world war it was used as a chemical weapon .	why is chlorine so reactive ? hint : think about its electron configuration	why is chlorine so reactive ? hint : think about its electron configuration
these carry it downward into the hollow organ known as the bladder . this organ 's muscular wall is made of tissue called detrusor muscle which relaxes as the bladder fills allowing it to inflate like a balloon . as the bladder gets full , the detrusor contracts .	the bladder wall is made up of :	the bladder wall is made up of :
many people assume that because the symbol depicts a wheelchair , that accessible facilities are meant only for people who use wheelchairs , or those , at the very least , who have a visible physical condition . but accessibility is a broad concept that applies to many , many different conditions . that includes people with autism , visual impairments , and autoimmune diseases , like lupus , which can cause pain and fatigue , along with many other conditions . in fact , the world health organization estimates that there are approximately 1 billion people who experience some form of disability , which means that this group is very likely to include yourself , or a family member , a classmate , a friend , or a work colleague . and people who use wheelchairs only make up about 65 million , or 15 % of the total .	how many people across the globe does the world health organization estimate are living with some type of disability ?	how many people across the globe does the world health organization estimate are living with some type of disability ?
it 's a scalar quantity . when the quarterback makes a three-step drop , he moves about three yards back . when he moves about another three yards forward , when he steps up into the pocket , so that quarterback moves a total distance of six yards .	list three reasons why knowing how to graph movement can help you on a practical level .	list three reasons why knowing how to graph movement can help you on a practical level .
on average , it 's the coldest , windiest , driest continent and has the highest average elevation of all the continents . you might think that it snows all the time at the poles , but antarctica is so dry , it 's considered a desert with annual precipitation of only 200 millimeters along the coast and far less inland . the temperature in antarctica has reached -89 degrees celsius .	list 3 differences in the poles .	list 3 differences in the poles .
> from this basic form , they attached fore and aft sterns , then formed the longitudinal planks and ribs that made up the frame of a boat designed to glide through shallow , narrow canals . a gondola has no straight lines or edges . its familiar profile was achieved through an impressive fire and water process that involved warping the boards with torches made of marsh reeds set ablaze .	what cultural , economic , and political aspects of venetian society contributed to the evolution of the gondola ?	what cultural , economic , and political aspects of venetian society contributed to the evolution of the gondola ?
we can ’ t get much movement out of these muscles , especially compared to some of our mammal relatives who use them to locate the sources of sounds . presumably this would have been quite helpful for early nocturnal mammals . in humans , you can still detect the remnants of this adaptation with electrodes .	why would it be helpful for specifically nocturnal animals to be able to move their ears ?	why would it be helpful for specifically nocturnal animals to be able to move their ears ?
galvani called this animal electricity , believing that a type of electricity was stored in the very stuff of life . but volta disagreed , arguing that it was the metal itself that made the leg twitch . the debate was eventually settled with volta 's groundbreaking experiment . he tested his idea with a stack of alternating layers of zinc and copper , separated by paper or cloth soaked in a salt water solution . what happened in volta 's cell is something chemists now call oxidation and reduction .	the tissue of living organisms does not contain solid metal , like a copper wire or a zinc plate . however , electric current flows through nerves and muscles . how does current flow through living tissue ? ( hint : think about the paper and cloth layers in volta ’ s pile )	the tissue of living organisms does not contain solid metal , like a copper wire or a zinc plate . however , electric current flows through nerves and muscles . how does current flow through living tissue ? ( hint : think about the paper and cloth layers in volta ’ s pile )
every mouthful of krill provides almost 480,000 calories , the same amount you get from eating 1,900 hamburgers . but , why are blue whales so big ? blue whales are considerably larger than the largest living land animal , the elephant .	blue whales feed _______ .	blue whales feed _______ .
and so what i 've done is i actually took a laboratory technique and miniaturized it and basically shrunk it down into the use of underwater housings to make a device that a single scuba diver can use . and so a single scuba diver can go anywhere from the surface to 40 meters , or 120 feet deep , to measure the hydrodynamic signatures that organisms create . before i begin , i want to immerse you into what these kinds of measurements require .	how may the hydrodynamic signatures of a swimming tuna vary from a swimming jellyfish ?	how may the hydrodynamic signatures of a swimming tuna vary from a swimming jellyfish ?
and so what i 've done is i actually took a laboratory technique and miniaturized it and basically shrunk it down into the use of underwater housings to make a device that a single scuba diver can use . and so a single scuba diver can go anywhere from the surface to 40 meters , or 120 feet deep , to measure the hydrodynamic signatures that organisms create . before i begin , i want to immerse you into what these kinds of measurements require .	why is it so difficult to access midwater and deep sea environments ?	why is it so difficult to access midwater and deep sea environments ?
the bravery deficit is why women are underrepresented in stem , in c-suites , in boardrooms , in congress , and pretty much everywhere you look . in the 1980s , psychologist carol dweck looked at how bright fifth graders handled an assignment that was too difficult for them . she found that bright girls were quick to give up .	what did carol dweck find when she studied bright fifth graders who were handed an assignment that was too difficult for them ?	what did carol dweck find when she studied bright fifth graders who were handed an assignment that was too difficult for them ?
the hypothalamus then halts the production of melatonin , a hormone that triggers sleep . at the same time , it increases the production of vasopressin and noradrenaline throughout the brain , which help control our sleep cycles . at about 10 am , the body 's rising temperature drives up our energy and alertness , and later in the afternoon , it also improves our muscle activity and coordination .	to stay awake , our brain increases the production of :	to stay awake , our brain increases the production of :
the dosing instructions on medicine labels can help , but they 're averages based on a sample population that does n't represent every consumer . and getting the dose right is important . if it 's too low , the medicine wo n't do its job .	one day , routine _____ tests may be available to finely tune the right dose of medicines for each patient .	one day , routine _____ tests may be available to finely tune the right dose of medicines for each patient .
but wait ! why would rna want to interfere with itself ? well , sometimes a cell does n't want to turn all of the messenger rna it creates into protein , or it may need to destroy rna injected into the cell by an attacking virus .	scientists hope to use rnai to help treat conditions caused by single gene mutations . these mutations would create incorrect rna , which would in turn create malformed proteins . explain how introducing long , double-stranded rna that matches the gene into a cell could help knock down the effects of these malformed proteins .	scientists hope to use rnai to help treat conditions caused by single gene mutations . these mutations would create incorrect rna , which would in turn create malformed proteins . explain how introducing long , double-stranded rna that matches the gene into a cell could help knock down the effects of these malformed proteins .
so if we can only make 3 atoms of element 118 , something that 's going to be very much less stable , is not likely to be found in the short time . though one of the exciting things about science , is that the unexpected often happens . so , it might be that before we 've started updating , some of these videos , element 119 will be announced .	as the professor said at the end of the video , “ one of the exciting things about science is that…	as the professor said at the end of the video , “ one of the exciting things about science is that…
and it comes down to a couple of things . first off , scientists have egos , and scientists like to name dinosaurs . they like to name anything .	how can scientists tell if a dinosaur is old or young ?	how can scientists tell if a dinosaur is old or young ?
as early as the ninth century , hlafdige was the name for a mistress of servants , or the female head of the household . the old english word for a male head of household was hlafweard , a compound of hlaf , loaf , and weard , which meant keeper and is the word of modern words like ward and warden . both hlafweard , the breadwinner , and hlafdige , the bread kneader , came to be titles of respect , referring to citizens of higher social standing .	hlaf weard is the old english word for ________ .	hlaf weard is the old english word for ________ .
as early as the ninth century , hlafdige was the name for a mistress of servants , or the female head of the household . the old english word for a male head of household was hlafweard , a compound of hlaf , loaf , and weard , which meant keeper and is the word of modern words like ward and warden . both hlafweard , the breadwinner , and hlafdige , the bread kneader , came to be titles of respect , referring to citizens of higher social standing .	what is the relationship between the old english word hlafweard ( bread keeper ) and the modern english word breadwinner ?	what is the relationship between the old english word hlafweard ( bread keeper ) and the modern english word breadwinner ?
a cataract occurs when proteins in the lens lose their normal arrangement , clumping together in a way that causes discoloration or clouding , and eventually blocks most vision . cataracts can be caused by eye injury , certain medications , ultraviolet radiation , diabetes , smoking , or some genetic disorders . but the most common cause is aging .	cataracts affect the _____ of the eye .	cataracts affect the _____ of the eye .
a cataract occurs when proteins in the lens lose their normal arrangement , clumping together in a way that causes discoloration or clouding , and eventually blocks most vision . cataracts can be caused by eye injury , certain medications , ultraviolet radiation , diabetes , smoking , or some genetic disorders . but the most common cause is aging .	modern day treatment of cataracts involves :	modern day treatment of cataracts involves :
what happens when you look at what the discoverers were thinking about when they made their discoveries , is you understand that they are not so different from us . we are all bags of meat and water . we all start with the same tools .	savage says , “ we ’ re all bags of meat and water ” and that “ we all start with the same tools. ” scientists like feynman , eratosthenes and fizeau , he argues , just think a little harder about a question and are a little more curious . do you agree with savage that scientists are basically the same as anybody else ? what other personality traits or habits of mind would be helpful to a scientist , in your opinion ?	savage says , “ we ’ re all bags of meat and water ” and that “ we all start with the same tools. ” scientists like feynman , eratosthenes and fizeau , he argues , just think a little harder about a question and are a little more curious . do you agree with savage that scientists are basically the same as anybody else ? what other personality traits or habits of mind would be helpful to a scientist , in your opinion ?
`` why yes , which do you need ? it 's 12:13 local time and 12:16 railway time . '' ultimately , the logic of keeping a standard time prevailed , and the united states government made time zones a matter of law with the standard time act of march 19 , 1918 . since then , there have been numerous changes to the time zones , but the concept of standard time has remained . but , the united states was actually not the first to develop standard time . the first company to implement the use of standard time was the great western railway in 1840 in britain , and by 1847 , most british railways were using greenwich mean time , or g.m.t . the british government made it official on august 2 , 1880 with the statutes , or definition of time , act .	what was the first company to institute standard time ?	what was the first company to institute standard time ?
according to their humoral system , the human body and soul were controlled by four fluids , known as humors , and their balance directly influenced a person 's health and temperament . melancholia comes from melaina kole , the word for black bile , the humor believed to cause sadness . by changing your diet and through medical practices , you could bring your humors into balance .	in ancient greece , doctors believed that the body and mind were controlled by four ______ , one of which was black bile , which gives us the word melancholy .	in ancient greece , doctors believed that the body and mind were controlled by four ______ , one of which was black bile , which gives us the word melancholy .
now who 's the defendant today ? khan ! '' `` i see your honor is familiar with genghis khan , the 13th century warlord whose military campaigns killed millions and left nothing but destruction in their wake . ''	what were some reasons for genghis khan ’ s attacking northern china ?	what were some reasons for genghis khan ’ s attacking northern china ?
now who 's the defendant today ? khan ! '' `` i see your honor is familiar with genghis khan , the 13th century warlord whose military campaigns killed millions and left nothing but destruction in their wake . ''	how did genghis khan ’ s uniting the tribes improve the status of mongol women ?	how did genghis khan ’ s uniting the tribes improve the status of mongol women ?
now who 's the defendant today ? khan ! '' `` i see your honor is familiar with genghis khan , the 13th century warlord whose military campaigns killed millions and left nothing but destruction in their wake . ''	what determined how genghis khan would treat a conquered city and its inhabitants ?	what determined how genghis khan would treat a conquered city and its inhabitants ?
now who 's the defendant today ? khan ! '' `` i see your honor is familiar with genghis khan , the 13th century warlord whose military campaigns killed millions and left nothing but destruction in their wake . ''	what was genghis khan ’ s birth name ?	what was genghis khan ’ s birth name ?
now who 's the defendant today ? khan ! '' `` i see your honor is familiar with genghis khan , the 13th century warlord whose military campaigns killed millions and left nothing but destruction in their wake . ''	which city ’ s destruction by one of genghis khan ’ s descendants infuriated another khan ?	which city ’ s destruction by one of genghis khan ’ s descendants infuriated another khan ?
you 're about 4 billion years late . we 're pretty sure that mars used to have oceans , lakes , rivers , the whole package . but over time , almost all of it froze beneath the surface , or evaporated off into space .	which part of mars has lower elevation and once had oceans ?	which part of mars has lower elevation and once had oceans ?
another screen outside the tube was glowing . in other words , invisible rays had passed through the cardboard . wilhelm had no idea what those rays were , so he called them x-rays , and his discovery eventually won him a nobel prize . here 's what we now know was happening .	x-rays were discovered by _____	x-rays were discovered by _____
i did not really discover anything about it but it was great fun . at one stage i had a whole row of test tubes of copper chromate above my bed and my bedroom at home and more recently when i starting doing doctorates , i did experiments with chromium , making new complexes of chromium and one of the very first compounds that my research group ever made , that was new that nobody else had made before , was a compound of ethene and chromium - chromium pentacarbonyl ethene so i have very warm feelings about it .	why is chromium so important to the professor that he has very warm feelings about it ?	why is chromium so important to the professor that he has very warm feelings about it ?
but holding it in for too long , forcing out your urine too fast , or urinating without proper physical support may over time weaken or overwork that muscular sling . that can lead to an overactive pelvic floor , bladder pain , urgency , or urinary incontinence . so in the interest of long-term health , it 's not a great habit to hold your pee .	which part of the urinary system is also part of the pelvic floor muscles ?	which part of the urinary system is also part of the pelvic floor muscles ?
but holding it in for too long , forcing out your urine too fast , or urinating without proper physical support may over time weaken or overwork that muscular sling . that can lead to an overactive pelvic floor , bladder pain , urgency , or urinary incontinence . so in the interest of long-term health , it 's not a great habit to hold your pee .	what do you think would happen to the muscles of the pelvic floor if a human only went to empty their bladder once or twice per day ?	what do you think would happen to the muscles of the pelvic floor if a human only went to empty their bladder once or twice per day ?
but the fact that the coelacanth came back from the dead is n't all that makes this fish so astounding . even more intriguing is the fact that genetically and morphologically , the coelacanth has more in common with four-limbed vertebrates than almost any other fish , and its smaller genome is ideal for study . this makes the coelacanth a powerful link between aquatic and land vertebrates , a living record of their transition from water to land millions of years ago .	genetically and morphologically , the coelacanth has more in common with ________ than almost any other fish .	genetically and morphologically , the coelacanth has more in common with ________ than almost any other fish .
leptin inhibits the hypothalamus neurons that drive food intake and stimulates the neurons that suppress it . by this point , your body has reached peak fullness . through the constant exchange of information between hormones , the vagus nerve , the brainstem , and the different portions of hypothalamus , your brain gets the signal that you 've eaten enough .	what parts of your body are important for sensing the fullness of your stomach ?	what parts of your body are important for sensing the fullness of your stomach ?
it took him a few moths to figure it out . by the time the first world rubik ’ s cube championships were held in 1982 , the winner -- he could solve the cube in a little less than 23 seconds . and these days ?	at the first rubik 's cube championship in 1982 , how fast did the winner solve the cube ?	at the first rubik 's cube championship in 1982 , how fast did the winner solve the cube ?
and then when it gets big enough , it decides to crawl into the hole , into the cockroach . so now it 's inside the still-living cockroach and the cockroach does n't mind much . this goes on for about a month .	why do you think the wasp goes through all the trouble to paralyze the cockroach ? would n't it just be easier to build a nest ?	why do you think the wasp goes through all the trouble to paralyze the cockroach ? would n't it just be easier to build a nest ?
and both can definitely make you move . in some instances , music works better than the spoken word , because it does n't have to be understood to be effective . although many musicians agree that music is a language , it is rarely treated as such .	in some instances , music works better than the spoken word . why ?	in some instances , music works better than the spoken word . why ?
this gave them the power to harness nature for their own benefit and ultimately dominate the natural order . with fire , humans could care for themselves with food and warmth . but they could also forge weapons and wage war .	why did the gift of fire allow humans to advance faster than the other creatures on earth ?	why did the gift of fire allow humans to advance faster than the other creatures on earth ?
again , the reminder of , like , why we do this . it also revealed for me another layer of drake as a character , and how important this guy is , you know , his message . he 's not just about the limelight and self-serving .	what do you think is the most important character trait of a photographer ?	what do you think is the most important character trait of a photographer ?
once the organism is rehydrated , the matrix dissolves , leaving behind undamaged , functional cells . beyond dryness , tardigrades can also tolerate other extreme stresses : being frozen , heated up past the boiling point of water , high levels of radiation , and even the vacuum of outer space . this has led to some erroneous speculation that tardigrades are extraterrestrial beings .	besides tardigrades , what other organisms can tolerate extreme environmental stresses ? do you think that they all use the same mechanisms to do this ?	besides tardigrades , what other organisms can tolerate extreme environmental stresses ? do you think that they all use the same mechanisms to do this ?
it 's the reason we can find geometric shapes in the night sky , it 's why we can know without checking that at least two people in london have exactly the same number of hairs on their head , and it explains why patterns can be found in just about any text , even vanilla ice lyrics . so what is ramsey theory ? simply put , it states that given enough elements in a set or structure , some particular interesting pattern among them is guaranteed to emerge .	how might one use ramsey theory in ‘ the real world ’ ?	how might one use ramsey theory in ‘ the real world ’ ?
it 's the reason we can find geometric shapes in the night sky , it 's why we can know without checking that at least two people in london have exactly the same number of hairs on their head , and it explains why patterns can be found in just about any text , even vanilla ice lyrics . so what is ramsey theory ? simply put , it states that given enough elements in a set or structure , some particular interesting pattern among them is guaranteed to emerge .	why are computers not capable of finding ramsey numbers through ‘ brute force ’ calculations ?	why are computers not capable of finding ramsey numbers through ‘ brute force ’ calculations ?
it 's the reason we can find geometric shapes in the night sky , it 's why we can know without checking that at least two people in london have exactly the same number of hairs on their head , and it explains why patterns can be found in just about any text , even vanilla ice lyrics . so what is ramsey theory ? simply put , it states that given enough elements in a set or structure , some particular interesting pattern among them is guaranteed to emerge .	does ramsey theory tell us how to find a particular structure in a given system ? in the case of random letters for instance , does ramsey theory tell you how to find a particular word or phrase ?	does ramsey theory tell us how to find a particular structure in a given system ? in the case of random letters for instance , does ramsey theory tell you how to find a particular word or phrase ?
it 's the reason we can find geometric shapes in the night sky , it 's why we can know without checking that at least two people in london have exactly the same number of hairs on their head , and it explains why patterns can be found in just about any text , even vanilla ice lyrics . so what is ramsey theory ? simply put , it states that given enough elements in a set or structure , some particular interesting pattern among them is guaranteed to emerge .	does ramsey theory tell you exactly how many elements that a system must contain to assure that a certain combination exists ( i.e. , letters in a phrase ?	does ramsey theory tell you exactly how many elements that a system must contain to assure that a certain combination exists ( i.e. , letters in a phrase ?
how does the difference between point 0000000398 and point 00000000398 cause one to have red eyes after swimming ? to answer this , we first need a way of dealing with rather small numbers , or in some cases extremely large numbers .	some scientists say that we are counterprepared ( meaning that we are not necessarily wired to enjoy mathematics ) . do you agree or disagree ? if you enjoy mathematics , why ? if you do not enjoy it , what are the things that you dislike about it ?	some scientists say that we are counterprepared ( meaning that we are not necessarily wired to enjoy mathematics ) . do you agree or disagree ? if you enjoy mathematics , why ? if you do not enjoy it , what are the things that you dislike about it ?
this is a kindergarten we designed in 2007 . we made this kindergarten to be a circle . it 's a kind of endless circulation on top of the roof .	what elements would you have added to the kindergarten constructed by tezuka and his team ?	what elements would you have added to the kindergarten constructed by tezuka and his team ?
this is a kindergarten we designed in 2007 . we made this kindergarten to be a circle . it 's a kind of endless circulation on top of the roof .	according to tezuka , why did he and his team decide to make this kindergarten without any boundaries ?	according to tezuka , why did he and his team decide to make this kindergarten without any boundaries ?
so greece 's economy is in a disaster . a quarter of the population is unemployed , and it has this very high debt burden . normally , if you 've got really high unemployment , what happens is that a country makes its currency cheaper by printing extra money . that makes its products cheaper on world markets , it makes it a more attractive tourist destination , and it means that foreign investors can get great bargains .	the major factors that led to the present greek debt crisis could be attributed to excess borrowing , premature entry to single currency , high interest rates or other factors . according to the video , discuss which one is the most significant and why .	the major factors that led to the present greek debt crisis could be attributed to excess borrowing , premature entry to single currency , high interest rates or other factors . according to the video , discuss which one is the most significant and why .
richardson 's love story starred a poor , serving-class heroine , who is both more superior and smarter than her upper-class suitor . the book , challenging a slew of traditions , caused quite a ruckus . there was more press for `` pamela '' than for parliament .	what book by samuel richardson caused quite a ruckus and garnered more press than parliament ?	what book by samuel richardson caused quite a ruckus and garnered more press than parliament ?
richardson 's love story starred a poor , serving-class heroine , who is both more superior and smarter than her upper-class suitor . the book , challenging a slew of traditions , caused quite a ruckus . there was more press for `` pamela '' than for parliament .	what do you think is the most influential book of your generation ? what about that book makes it so special ? list two other books that you think everyone should read , and explain why they should read them .	what do you think is the most influential book of your generation ? what about that book makes it so special ? list two other books that you think everyone should read , and explain why they should read them .
we hold back from challenges in which there is any risk of ending up looking ridiculous which comprises , of course , almost all the most interesting situations . in a foreign city , we might grow reluctant to ask anyone to guide us to the nice bars , because they might think us an ignorant , pitiable , lost tourist . we might long to kiss someone but never let on out of a fear that they could dismiss us as a predatory loser .	according to this video , why does it sometimes hurt us to be reminded of our strengths ?	according to this video , why does it sometimes hurt us to be reminded of our strengths ?
he said , `` thank you , ma'am . '' ( laughs ) later on , as youngsters , a show came on tv called , `` star trek . '' now , star trek showed the future where there were black folk and white folk working together , and i just looked at it as science-fiction , because that was n't gon na happen , really . but ronald saw it as science-possibility , you know .	what television show did the mcnair brothers watch together that showed them a future where people of all kinds could work together ?	what television show did the mcnair brothers watch together that showed them a future where people of all kinds could work together ?
emily dickinson said over a century ago that `` there is no frigate like a book to take us lands away ... '' and it 's true . when we pick up a book , turn on the tv , or watch a movie , we 're carried away down the currents of story into a world of imagination .	who said , `` there is no frigate like a book to take us lands away '' ?	who said , `` there is no frigate like a book to take us lands away '' ?
it might not look that groundbreaking now , but this style was revolutionary at the time . it was a mass market car with curvy edges — and people liked it . “ taurus !	during this boxy car period , certain curvy cars were manufactured in america , but they were marketed towards upscale clients . why ?	during this boxy car period , certain curvy cars were manufactured in america , but they were marketed towards upscale clients . why ?
it costs energy to clear the vacuum . > > so where is the mass of the proton really coming from ? well , of course , the constituent quarks do interact with the higgs field and that gives them a small amount of mass . but if you add up the mass of all the quarks in the proton it would only account for about one percent of its total mass .	the quarks that make up protons do interact with the higgs field , which gives them a small amount of mass -- that adds up to about 1 % of the total mass of the proton . where is the other 99 % of the mass coming from then ?	the quarks that make up protons do interact with the higgs field , which gives them a small amount of mass -- that adds up to about 1 % of the total mass of the proton . where is the other 99 % of the mass coming from then ?
if the neuronal ensembles for the dolphin and pineapple are activated at the same time , we can perceive the two separate objects as a single image . but something in your brain has to coordinate that firing . one plausible candidate is the prefrontal cortex , which is involved in all complex cognitive functions .	what is the role of myelin in the brain ?	what is the role of myelin in the brain ?
if the neuronal ensembles for the dolphin and pineapple are activated at the same time , we can perceive the two separate objects as a single image . but something in your brain has to coordinate that firing . one plausible candidate is the prefrontal cortex , which is involved in all complex cognitive functions .	you want to forget your ex . is it possible for a doctor ( theoretically speaking ) to rid your brain from the memory of your ex ?	you want to forget your ex . is it possible for a doctor ( theoretically speaking ) to rid your brain from the memory of your ex ?
compared to its more abundant cousin , a strike by a neutron easily splits the u-235 nuclei into lighter , radioactive elements called fission products , in addition to two to three neutrons , gamma rays , and a few neutrinos . during fission , some nuclear mass transforms into energy . a fraction of the newfound energy powers the fast-moving neutrons , and if some of them strike uranium nuclei , fission results in a second larger generation of neutrons .	nuclear power plants benefit those people and nations who utilize the electricity they produce . however , they can also harm a larger group of people exposed to the radioactive materials they produce . the people who benefit are often not the same as the people who are at risk . what does this trade-off tell you about the desirability of nuclear energy ?	nuclear power plants benefit those people and nations who utilize the electricity they produce . however , they can also harm a larger group of people exposed to the radioactive materials they produce . the people who benefit are often not the same as the people who are at risk . what does this trade-off tell you about the desirability of nuclear energy ?
prisoners five through nine are each looking for an odd number of black hats , which they see , so they figure out that their hats are white . now it all comes down to you at the front of the line . if the ninth prisoner saw an odd number of black hats , that can only mean one thing .	which order are you lined up in , from back to front ?	which order are you lined up in , from back to front ?
when exposed to enzymes in the saliva , carbohydrates get broken down into simpler sugars , which can become the fodder for those ravenous mouth bacteria . so while ancient humans did eat less sugar compared to us , their teeth were still exposed to sugars . that does n't mean they were unable to treat their cavities , though .	what are some foods that contain hidden sugars that can harm your teeth ?	what are some foods that contain hidden sugars that can harm your teeth ?
and believe it or not , we can learn all of these things simply from the light shining in the sky . we can decipher one kind of stellar message by turning starlight into rainbows . when you look at a rainbow on earth , you 're really looking at light from our sun being scattered through water droplets in the atmosphere into all the different wavelengths that make it up .	what can be learned by studying stellar spectra ?	what can be learned by studying stellar spectra ?
the idea that electrons can not be pinpointed but exist within a range of possible locations gave rise to the current quantum model of the atom , a fascinating theory with a whole new set of complexities whose implications have yet to be fully grasped . even though our understanding of atoms keeps changing , the basic fact of atoms remains , so let 's celebrate the triumph of atomic theory with some fireworks . as electrons circling an atom shift between energy levels , they absorb or release energy in the form of specific wavelengths of light , resulting in all the marvelous colors we see .	what causes fireworks ?	what causes fireworks ?
it also combines the linguistic and mathematical precision , in which the left hemisphere is more involved , with the novel and creative content that the right excels in . for these reasons , playing music has been found to increase the volume and activity in the brain 's corpus callosum , the bridge between the two hemispheres , allowing messages to get across the brain faster and through more diverse routes . this may allow musicians to solve problems more effectively and creatively , in both academic and social settings .	the bridge between the two brain hemispheres is called ?	the bridge between the two brain hemispheres is called ?
what could be hidden up there ? by the time stephen was in college , that curiosity pulled him skyward to the tallest trees on earth : the ancient coast redwoods of northern california . rising from trunks up to 20 feet in diameter , redwoods can grow up to 380 feet , or 38 stories , over a 2,000 year lifetime .	fog is an important element in the survival of coast redwoods , especially during the dry , summer months . find out what fog is and the ways coast redwoods use fog to live .	fog is an important element in the survival of coast redwoods , especially during the dry , summer months . find out what fog is and the ways coast redwoods use fog to live .
the truth is that many people are susceptible not only to the temptation to commit fraud but to convincing themselves that they 've done nothing wrong . so why does fraud happen ? while individual motivations may differ from case to case , the fraud triangle , a model developed by criminologist donald cressey , shows three conditions that make fraud likely : pressure , opportunity , and rationalization . pressure is often what motivates someone to engage in fraud to begin with .	the three indices of the fraud triangle are pressure , opportunity and _____ .	the three indices of the fraud triangle are pressure , opportunity and _____ .
the truth is that many people are susceptible not only to the temptation to commit fraud but to convincing themselves that they 've done nothing wrong . so why does fraud happen ? while individual motivations may differ from case to case , the fraud triangle , a model developed by criminologist donald cressey , shows three conditions that make fraud likely : pressure , opportunity , and rationalization . pressure is often what motivates someone to engage in fraud to begin with .	use the fraud triangle ( pressure , opportunity and rationalization ) to analyze a recent fraud case you 've seen in the media .	use the fraud triangle ( pressure , opportunity and rationalization ) to analyze a recent fraud case you 've seen in the media .
the truth is that many people are susceptible not only to the temptation to commit fraud but to convincing themselves that they 've done nothing wrong . so why does fraud happen ? while individual motivations may differ from case to case , the fraud triangle , a model developed by criminologist donald cressey , shows three conditions that make fraud likely : pressure , opportunity , and rationalization . pressure is often what motivates someone to engage in fraud to begin with .	please discuss the madoff fraud case and its impact on the global community . why do you think his fraud went undetected for so long ?	please discuss the madoff fraud case and its impact on the global community . why do you think his fraud went undetected for so long ?
mysteries of vernacular : lady , woman . lady is tied to a number of words that seem at first glance etymologically unrelated .	what are some surnames or titles that , like lady , reference the lives and livelihoods of our ancestors ?	what are some surnames or titles that , like lady , reference the lives and livelihoods of our ancestors ?
what does that mean ? let 's say you and a friend are moving your tent . you stand on opposite sides so you 're facing in opposite directions .	you have walked to a friend ’ s house and suddenly get a phone call . “ where are you ? ” your sister asks . she wants to come and see you at your friend ’ s house . how do you use vectors to diagram the pathway to your friend ’ s house so your sister can arrive without getting lost ?	you have walked to a friend ’ s house and suddenly get a phone call . “ where are you ? ” your sister asks . she wants to come and see you at your friend ’ s house . how do you use vectors to diagram the pathway to your friend ’ s house so your sister can arrive without getting lost ?
as the bacteria continue to feed and multiply , they start to kill off the plant cells . that explains spots , but what about mushy blemishes ? those are usually caused when the fruit is attacked by microbes after it 's detached from the plant .	hard spots and mushy spots are caused by pathogens that have very different strategies . what would be the advantage of being a necrotroph ? what would be advantages of being a biotroph ?	hard spots and mushy spots are caused by pathogens that have very different strategies . what would be the advantage of being a necrotroph ? what would be advantages of being a biotroph ?
in the year 400 c.e . the celts in britain were ruled by romans . this had one benefit for the celts : the romans protected them from the barbarian saxon tribes of northern europe .	the reason why the celts benefited from roman rule was that	the reason why the celts benefited from roman rule was that
it was a good thing . ( applause ) so when the bill passed , we texted them back , `` thank you for supporting the bill . '' ( laughter ) and when the bill was signed by the president , making it into law , it was a plus .	how did memory use the limited technology in her country to help support her proposed bill ?	how did memory use the limited technology in her country to help support her proposed bill ?
finally , psyche had to travel to the underworld and convince proserpina , queen of the dead , to put a drop of her beauty in a box for venus . once again , the unseen voice came to psyche 's aide . it told her to bring barley cakes for cerberus , the guard dog to the underworld and coins to pay the boatman , charon to ferry her across the river styx .	the voice psyche hears :	the voice psyche hears :
le breton paired him with co-editor jean le rond d'alembert , a math genius found on a church doorstep as a baby . technical dictionaries , like the cyclopedia , were n't new , but no one had attempted one publication covering all knowledge , so they did . the two men organized the french enlightenment 's brightest stars to produce the first encyclopedia , or rational dictionary of the arts , sciences , and crafts .	what is one thing diderot had to do to earn a living before starting the encyclopedia ?	what is one thing diderot had to do to earn a living before starting the encyclopedia ?
that is , their apparent thickness changes depending on how hard you push , or how long , or how fast . and ketchup is actually non-newtonian in two different ways . way number one : the harder you push , the thinner ketchup seems to get .	is pure water newtonian ?	is pure water newtonian ?
so , we have this ability as well . and in humans , we call it the `` body clock . '' you can see this most clearly when you take away someone 's watch and you shut them into a bunker , deep underground , for a couple of months .	how do they test body clocks in humans ?	how do they test body clocks in humans ?
communicating underwater is challenging . light and odors do n't travel well , so it 's hard for animals to see or smell .	what is a hydrophone ?	what is a hydrophone ?
but a series of recent discoveries has revealed that adult brains actually do continue to produce new cells in at least three specialized locations . this process , known as neurogenesis , involves dedicated brain cells , called neural stem cells and progenitor cells , which manufacture new neurons or replace the old ones . the three regions where neurogenesis has been discovered are the dentate gyrus , associated with learning and memory , the subventricular zone , which may supply neurons to the olfactory bulb for communication between the nose and brain , and the striatum , which helps manage movement .	what factors have been shown to possibly stimulate the neurogenic process ?	what factors have been shown to possibly stimulate the neurogenic process ?
but a series of recent discoveries has revealed that adult brains actually do continue to produce new cells in at least three specialized locations . this process , known as neurogenesis , involves dedicated brain cells , called neural stem cells and progenitor cells , which manufacture new neurons or replace the old ones . the three regions where neurogenesis has been discovered are the dentate gyrus , associated with learning and memory , the subventricular zone , which may supply neurons to the olfactory bulb for communication between the nose and brain , and the striatum , which helps manage movement .	what type of brain cell , other than neural stem cells , can be coaxed into generating neurons ?	what type of brain cell , other than neural stem cells , can be coaxed into generating neurons ?
but a series of recent discoveries has revealed that adult brains actually do continue to produce new cells in at least three specialized locations . this process , known as neurogenesis , involves dedicated brain cells , called neural stem cells and progenitor cells , which manufacture new neurons or replace the old ones . the three regions where neurogenesis has been discovered are the dentate gyrus , associated with learning and memory , the subventricular zone , which may supply neurons to the olfactory bulb for communication between the nose and brain , and the striatum , which helps manage movement .	the adult human brain is composed of billions of neurons and glial cells connected to one another . what are some of the challenges of successfully grafting donor neural cells to treat brain disease ?	the adult human brain is composed of billions of neurons and glial cells connected to one another . what are some of the challenges of successfully grafting donor neural cells to treat brain disease ?
but a series of recent discoveries has revealed that adult brains actually do continue to produce new cells in at least three specialized locations . this process , known as neurogenesis , involves dedicated brain cells , called neural stem cells and progenitor cells , which manufacture new neurons or replace the old ones . the three regions where neurogenesis has been discovered are the dentate gyrus , associated with learning and memory , the subventricular zone , which may supply neurons to the olfactory bulb for communication between the nose and brain , and the striatum , which helps manage movement .	two of the main properties of neural stem cells are their ability to proliferate to produce more cells and to differentiate into neurons and glial cells . what are some of the deleterious effects that would result from abnormal regulation of either of these two processes ?	two of the main properties of neural stem cells are their ability to proliferate to produce more cells and to differentiate into neurons and glial cells . what are some of the deleterious effects that would result from abnormal regulation of either of these two processes ?
finally , even when the semantics are technically correct , the program might miss their finer points , such as whether the children `` mangiano '' the muffins , or `` divorano '' them . another method is statistical machine translation , which analyzes a database of books , articles , and documents that have already been translated by humans . by finding matches between source and translated text that are unlikely to occur by chance , the program can identify corresponding phrases and patterns , and use them for future translations .	what do you think are the pros and cons of a `` statistical machine translation '' ?	what do you think are the pros and cons of a `` statistical machine translation '' ?
finally , even when the semantics are technically correct , the program might miss their finer points , such as whether the children `` mangiano '' the muffins , or `` divorano '' them . another method is statistical machine translation , which analyzes a database of books , articles , and documents that have already been translated by humans . by finding matches between source and translated text that are unlikely to occur by chance , the program can identify corresponding phrases and patterns , and use them for future translations .	which of the following is a method used in designing machine translators ?	which of the following is a method used in designing machine translators ?
finally , even when the semantics are technically correct , the program might miss their finer points , such as whether the children `` mangiano '' the muffins , or `` divorano '' them . another method is statistical machine translation , which analyzes a database of books , articles , and documents that have already been translated by humans . by finding matches between source and translated text that are unlikely to occur by chance , the program can identify corresponding phrases and patterns , and use them for future translations .	`` statistical machine translation '' is based :	`` statistical machine translation '' is based :
as bad as all that sounds , white 's dangerous effects pale in comparison to another , more wide-spread pigment , green . two synthetic greens called scheele 's green and paris green were first introduced in the 18th century . they were far more vibrant and flashy than the relatively dull greens made from natural pigments , so they quickly became popular choices for paint as well as dye for textiles , wallpaper , soaps , cake decorations , toys , candy , and clothing .	the bright green pigments found in scheele ’ s and paris green were later found to contain :	the bright green pigments found in scheele ’ s and paris green were later found to contain :
as bad as all that sounds , white 's dangerous effects pale in comparison to another , more wide-spread pigment , green . two synthetic greens called scheele 's green and paris green were first introduced in the 18th century . they were far more vibrant and flashy than the relatively dull greens made from natural pigments , so they quickly became popular choices for paint as well as dye for textiles , wallpaper , soaps , cake decorations , toys , candy , and clothing .	list some uses for the bright green pigments paris and scheele 's green .	list some uses for the bright green pigments paris and scheele 's green .
on the game show , you were thinking about each item 's exchange value , what you could obtain for them at a later time , but in an emergency , like the desert scenario , what matters far more is their use value , how helpful they are in your current situation . and because we only get to choose one of the options , we also have to consider its opportunity cost , or what we lose by giving up the other choice . after all , it does n't matter how much you could get from selling the diamond if you never make it out of the desert .	amy can either eat an apple or an orange . what is the opportunity cost of eating the apple ?	amy can either eat an apple or an orange . what is the opportunity cost of eating the apple ?
where does bread get its fluffiness ? swiss cheese its holes ? and what makes vinegar so sour ?	which of the described compounds is required for cheese making ?	which of the described compounds is required for cheese making ?
now comes the hard part . the professor and the janitor take the lantern and cross together . this takes them ten minutes since the janitor has to slow down for the old professor who keeps muttering that he probably should n't have given the zombies night vision .	which pair should go together second ?	which pair should go together second ?
1920s -- the charleston . the charleston was all about improvisation and musicality , making its way into lindy hop , swing dancing and even the kid n play , originally called the funky charleston . started by a tight-knit black community near charleston , south carolina , the charleston permeated dance halls where young women suddenly had the freedom to kick their heels and move their legs .	what are some sources of linguistic play that could influence the development of rhythm ?	what are some sources of linguistic play that could influence the development of rhythm ?
germany were on the attack with the u-boat submarines adding a new dimension to naval warfare ; they could attack without warning ! they sank many ships including the ship the lusitania and because this broke loads of war rules , it ultimately influenced the united states of america to enter the war ... two years later ! the british pushed up through the arabian peninsula with t.e .	the sinking of what passenger ship prompted the united states to enter the war ?	the sinking of what passenger ship prompted the united states to enter the war ?
with this procedure , jenner invented the smallpox vaccination . unlike variolation , which used actual smallpox virus to try to protect people , vaccination used the far less dangerous cowpox virus . the medical establishment , cautious then as now , deliberated at length over his findings before accepting them .	why does a previous infection with the cowpox virus protect humans against smallpox virus infection and disease ?	why does a previous infection with the cowpox virus protect humans against smallpox virus infection and disease ?
in african-american social dances , we see over 200 years of how african and african-american traditions influenced our history . the present always contains the past . and the past shapes who we are and who we will be .	in social dance , the present always contains the past . describe two examples of this from the lesson .	in social dance , the present always contains the past . describe two examples of this from the lesson .
under this test , a school must regularly ask female students what sports they are interested in and also take into consideration the popularity of certain sports in the area where the school is located . it must , then , add teams according to the girls ' interests . another important part of title ix is that it does n't just look at how many athletic opportunities are available to each sex but whether those opportunities are of equal quality . specifically , title ix requires equality between boys and girls teams for things like equipment and supplies , publicity , the scheduling of games and practice times , and the quality and number of coaches . girls should also have equal access to locker rooms , practice spaces , and competitive facilities , as well as medical services .	title ix requires equivalent support for boys and girls areas in which of the following areas ?	title ix requires equivalent support for boys and girls areas in which of the following areas ?
he noticed that every time you saw the earth 's shadow on the moon , it was circular , and the only shape that constantly creates a circular shadow is a sphere , q.e.d . the earth is round . but nobody knew how big it was until eratosthenes got this letter with this fact .	what prompted eratosthenes to contemplate the circumference of a spherical earth in the third century bc ?	what prompted eratosthenes to contemplate the circumference of a spherical earth in the third century bc ?
he noticed that every time you saw the earth 's shadow on the moon , it was circular , and the only shape that constantly creates a circular shadow is a sphere , q.e.d . the earth is round . but nobody knew how big it was until eratosthenes got this letter with this fact .	what ’ s remarkable about eratosthenes ’ s measurements of the earth ?	what ’ s remarkable about eratosthenes ’ s measurements of the earth ?
it is a real thrill when you are the first person to make a compound that does not exist out in the galaxy and space , it has never existed on our planet before but now we have made it for the first time . that ’ s a really good thing to do we are really very excited ! a new union has been formed within the periodic table and it has been done here at nottingham .	why is the professor so excited at the end of the video ?	why is the professor so excited at the end of the video ?
but there 's one thing missing . remember wolff 's law ? an artificial bone needs to experience real stress , or else it will come out weak and brittle , so the bioreactor constantly pumps fluids around the bone , and the pressure tells the osteoblasts to add bone density .	explain wolf 's law . why is it so important to understand changes that happen in astronauts ' bones in space ?	explain wolf 's law . why is it so important to understand changes that happen in astronauts ' bones in space ?
that 's how this and other impressionist works use quickly executed prominent brushstrokes to capture something strikingly real about how light moves . 60 years later , russian mathematician andrey kolmogorov furthered our mathematical understanding of turbulence when he proposed that energy in a turbulent fluid at length r varies in proportion to the 5/3rds power of r. experimental measurements show kolmogorov was remarkably close to the way turbulent flow works , although a complete description of turbulence remains one of the unsolved problems in physics . a turbulent flow is self-similar if there is an energy cascade . in other words , big eddies transfer their energy to smaller eddies , which do likewise at other scales .	research the idea of statistical self-similarity . what are some examples of turbulence that are not shown in the video ?	research the idea of statistical self-similarity . what are some examples of turbulence that are not shown in the video ?
thanks to dirt , you now know how to calculate distance , rate , and time . in what other situations can you use the distance formula ? you do n't even need to be watching a space race . as long as you know two pieces of information for the formula d=rt , you can calculate any moving vehicle or object .	how would you be able to predict the outcome of a bike race between two people if you knew the distance of the race and how fast each person was able to ride ?	how would you be able to predict the outcome of a bike race between two people if you knew the distance of the race and how fast each person was able to ride ?
we mythologize childhood . mine was in stone mountain , georgia , a completely typical 1980 's american suburb . for the parents , a wholesome paradise of bridge parties and tennis games .	what substance was most commonly used amongst teenagers in the 1980 's ?	what substance was most commonly used amongst teenagers in the 1980 's ?
we can invert negative emotions and states of mind , turning ignorance into wisdom , anger into compassion , and greed into generosity . the fourth and final noble truth the buddha uncovered is that we can learn to move beyond suffering through what he termed the noble eightfold path . the eightfold path involves a series of aspects of behaving “ right ” and wisely : right view , right intention , right speech , right action , right livelihood , right effort , right mindfulness , and right concentration .	what is the noble eightfold path ?	what is the noble eightfold path ?
oh no . caffeine also stimulates the production of adrenaline or epinephrine . adrenaline is a pretty well known hormone involved in the fight-or-flight response . it causes all sort of physiological reactions !	which of the following is not an effect of adrenaline ?	which of the following is not an effect of adrenaline ?
we might say that instead of accumulating material wealth , participants in a gift economy use it to accumulate social wealth . though some instances of gift economies may resemble barter , the difference is that the original gift is given without any preconditions or haggling . instead , the social norm of reciprocity obligates recipients to voluntarily return the favor .	what differentiates a gift exchange from barter ?	what differentiates a gift exchange from barter ?
before reaching our eyes , different gases absorbed those specific parts of the spectrum . for example , oxygen gas snatched up some of the dark red light , and sodium grabbed two bands of yellow . but why do these gases absorb specific colors of light ?	oxygen gas snatched up some of the ________ .	oxygen gas snatched up some of the ________ .
and eventually word got out that the new world ’ s 1 year survival rate was like 20 % and it became harder to find new colonists . but 1618 , a virginia company hit upon a recruiting strategy called the headright system which offered 50 acres of land for each person that a settler paid to bring over . and this enabled the creation of a number of large estates , which were mostly worked on and populated by indentured servants .	in 1618 , the headright system started in jamestown , virginia . what was it ?	in 1618 , the headright system started in jamestown , virginia . what was it ?
in addition , nearby chambers contain figures of musicians and acrobats , workers and government officials , and various exotic animals , indicating that emperor qin had more plans for the afterlife than simply waging war . all the figurines are sculpted from terracotta , or baked earth , a type of reddish brown clay . to construct them , multiple workshops and reportedly over 720,000 laborers were commandeered by the emperor , including groups of artisans who molded each body part separately to construct statues as individual as the real warriors in the emperor 's army .	terracotta , or also known as “ _______ ” is a type of ______ clay .	terracotta , or also known as “ _______ ” is a type of ______ clay .
in addition , nearby chambers contain figures of musicians and acrobats , workers and government officials , and various exotic animals , indicating that emperor qin had more plans for the afterlife than simply waging war . all the figurines are sculpted from terracotta , or baked earth , a type of reddish brown clay . to construct them , multiple workshops and reportedly over 720,000 laborers were commandeered by the emperor , including groups of artisans who molded each body part separately to construct statues as individual as the real warriors in the emperor 's army .	the terracotta warriors were discovered in __________ by ____________ who were digging a ________ .	the terracotta warriors were discovered in __________ by ____________ who were digging a ________ .
in addition , nearby chambers contain figures of musicians and acrobats , workers and government officials , and various exotic animals , indicating that emperor qin had more plans for the afterlife than simply waging war . all the figurines are sculpted from terracotta , or baked earth , a type of reddish brown clay . to construct them , multiple workshops and reportedly over 720,000 laborers were commandeered by the emperor , including groups of artisans who molded each body part separately to construct statues as individual as the real warriors in the emperor 's army .	___________ commissioned the building of the terracotta warriors ?	___________ commissioned the building of the terracotta warriors ?
in addition , nearby chambers contain figures of musicians and acrobats , workers and government officials , and various exotic animals , indicating that emperor qin had more plans for the afterlife than simply waging war . all the figurines are sculpted from terracotta , or baked earth , a type of reddish brown clay . to construct them , multiple workshops and reportedly over 720,000 laborers were commandeered by the emperor , including groups of artisans who molded each body part separately to construct statues as individual as the real warriors in the emperor 's army .	the reason he had the terracotta warriors built was because he was obsessed with his _________ .	the reason he had the terracotta warriors built was because he was obsessed with his _________ .
looking inside their heads , we can see why . the elephant boasts the largest brain of any land mammal , as well as an impressive encephalization quotient . this is the size of the brain relative to what we 'd expect for an animal 's body size , and the elephant 's eq is nearly as high as a chimpanzee 's . and despite the distant relation , convergent evolution has made it remarkably similar to the human brain , with as many neurons and synapses and a highly developed hippocampus and cerebral cortex .	how is an elephant 's brain size related to its intelligence ?	how is an elephant 's brain size related to its intelligence ?
the venom of one box jellyfish can kill a human in under five minutes , making it one of the most potent poisons of any animal in the world . other jellyfish superpowers are less lethal . one species of jellyfish glows green when it 's agitated , mostly thanks to a biofluorescent compound called green fluorescent protein , or gfp . scientists isolated the gene for gfp and figured out how to insert it into the dna of other cells .	jellyfish derived fluorescent and bioluminescent compounds are used for all the following except :	jellyfish derived fluorescent and bioluminescent compounds are used for all the following except :
the venom of one box jellyfish can kill a human in under five minutes , making it one of the most potent poisons of any animal in the world . other jellyfish superpowers are less lethal . one species of jellyfish glows green when it 's agitated , mostly thanks to a biofluorescent compound called green fluorescent protein , or gfp . scientists isolated the gene for gfp and figured out how to insert it into the dna of other cells .	jellyfish have provided scientists with tools such as green fluorescent protein and aequorin that have led to revolutionary advances in experimental and biomedical science . what other sea creatures have provided humans with benefits ?	jellyfish have provided scientists with tools such as green fluorescent protein and aequorin that have led to revolutionary advances in experimental and biomedical science . what other sea creatures have provided humans with benefits ?
some studies suggest that hookworms can treat allergies , which may be another reason allergies are more common in industrialized countries where hookworms are few and far between . of course , you can always just wait your seasonal allergies out . the spring pollen onslaught dwindles by mid-summer , just in time for ragweed season .	some people claim that eating local honey will reduce seasonal allergies . is this strategy related to any of the treatments mentioned in the lesson ?	some people claim that eating local honey will reduce seasonal allergies . is this strategy related to any of the treatments mentioned in the lesson ?
the distance between new york and boston is about 2 degrees , or 8 minutes , which can be the difference between making or missing your train connection . if the difference between new york and boston is 8 minutes , imagine the difference between boston and australia . the use of time zones irons out these differences and makes communication significantly smoother .	the difference between new york and boston is about :	the difference between new york and boston is about :
i 'm from india , and india is one of the oldest civilizations in the world . it has contributed to the world concepts such as yoga , ayurveda , spicy chicken tikka , and vedic math . vedic math is one of the world 's easiest and simplest way to do math .	from which civilization did vedic mathematics originate ?	from which civilization did vedic mathematics originate ?
but , she would n't even look at me . '' step 2 : read out loud . as he writes , his lips try on words then toss them out like bad tenants .	what 's ms. gayle 's step 2 ?	what 's ms. gayle 's step 2 ?
well , believe it or not , scientists are n't exactly sure . the most common theory has to do with mismatched sensory signals . when you travel in a car , your body gets two different messages .	can you think of other possible consequences due to our senses and brain being mismatched ?	can you think of other possible consequences due to our senses and brain being mismatched ?
this has given us new information . for example , it seems that air pollution was a serious problem in ancient egypt , probably because of indoor fires used to bake bread . cardiovascular disease was also common , as was tuberculosis . so ancient egyptians were somewhat successful at evading decay .	air pollution , cardiovascular disease and tuberculosis all seemed to be problems in ancient egypt . which of these surprised you the most ? why ?	air pollution , cardiovascular disease and tuberculosis all seemed to be problems in ancient egypt . which of these surprised you the most ? why ?
sometimes , their words may even be unrecognizable . there are several types of aphasia grouped into two categories : fluent , or receptive , aphasia and non-fluent , or expressive , aphasia . people with fluent aphasia may have normal vocal inflection but use words that lack meaning .	aphasia affects :	aphasia affects :
sometimes , their words may even be unrecognizable . there are several types of aphasia grouped into two categories : fluent , or receptive , aphasia and non-fluent , or expressive , aphasia . people with fluent aphasia may have normal vocal inflection but use words that lack meaning .	there are many types of aphasia , broadly grouped into two categories : fluent and non-fluent . what are the main differences between them ?	there are many types of aphasia , broadly grouped into two categories : fluent and non-fluent . what are the main differences between them ?
sometimes , their words may even be unrecognizable . there are several types of aphasia grouped into two categories : fluent , or receptive , aphasia and non-fluent , or expressive , aphasia . people with fluent aphasia may have normal vocal inflection but use words that lack meaning .	how is primary progressive aphasia ( ppa ) different from other forms of aphasia ?	how is primary progressive aphasia ( ppa ) different from other forms of aphasia ?
while the market economies we know are formed by relationships between the things being traded , a gift economy consists of the relationships between the people doing the trading . gift economies have existed throughout human history . the first studies of the concept came from anthropologists bronislaw malinowski and marcel mauss who describe the natives of the trobriand islands making dangerous canoe journeys across miles of ocean to exchange shell necklaces and arm bands .	what are some modern-day examples of gift economies ?	what are some modern-day examples of gift economies ?
to make energy , the mitochondria takes oxygen , this is the only reason we breathe it , and adds electrons from the food we eat to make water molecules . that process also creates a high energy molecule , called atp which the cell uses to power all of its parts . plant cells make energy a different way .	the nucleus of the cell contains an important molecule found in all cells . this molecule is “ the blueprint of life ” and is called :	the nucleus of the cell contains an important molecule found in all cells . this molecule is “ the blueprint of life ” and is called :
remember : no more than two people can cross the bridge together , anyone crossing must either hold the lantern or stay right next to it , and any of you can safely wait in the dark on either side of the gorge . most importantly , everyone must be safely across before the zombies arrive . otherwise , the first zombie could step on the bridge while people are still on it .	why do you have to get everyone to the other side before the zombies start to cross ?	why do you have to get everyone to the other side before the zombies start to cross ?
at one point , a single tulip bulb sold for more than ten times the annual salary of a skilled craftsman . in the stock market , the price of stock is based on the supply and demand of investors . stock prices tend to rise when it seems like a company will earn more in the future .	the year 2000 saw stock of internet companies soar and then plummet ; this is referred to as the _____ .	the year 2000 saw stock of internet companies soar and then plummet ; this is referred to as the _____ .
they bind to the proteins in neurons ' cell membranes that let charged particles in and out , and lock out positively charged particles . one compound that does this is cocaine , whose painkilling effects were discovered by accident when an ophthalmology intern got some on his tongue . it 's still occasionally used as an anesthetic , but many of the more common regional anesthetics have a similar chemical structure and work the same way .	the regional anesthetic , lidocaine , doctors commonly use today was first discovered by a ( future ) ophthalmology resident when he accidentally tasted this illegal narcotic on his tongue after his friend , sigmund freud , gave him a package to help elevate his mood .	the regional anesthetic , lidocaine , doctors commonly use today was first discovered by a ( future ) ophthalmology resident when he accidentally tasted this illegal narcotic on his tongue after his friend , sigmund freud , gave him a package to help elevate his mood .
reshma saujani : yeah . so in 2012 , we taught 20 girls . this year we 'll teach 40,000 in all 50 states .	what are some practical ways that you think schools can help encourage girls to be brave ?	what are some practical ways that you think schools can help encourage girls to be brave ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar we talk about inventions and innovation as though the best things out there are the internet , ipads , or smart phones . or perhaps more simply , trains , planes , and automobiles .	which technology had the biggest impact on allowing time for inventions and innovation ?	which technology had the biggest impact on allowing time for inventions and innovation ?
there 's still an unfathomably huge amount of radiation all around us that can pass right through the walls . every second , about 50 muons from cosmic rays , 10 million neutrinos coming directly from the big bang , 30 million photons from the cosmic microwave background , and 300 trillion neutrinos from the sun pass through your body . it is possible to shield vacuum chambers with substances , including water , that absorb and reflect this radiation , except for neutrinos .	what types of particles from cosmic sources go through your body most frequently ?	what types of particles from cosmic sources go through your body most frequently ?
soda and white bread have a similar glycemic index because they have a similar effect on your blood sugar . but when you eat foods high in fiber , like vegetables , fruits , and whole grains , those indigestible beta bonds slow the release of glucose into the blood . those foods have a lower glycemic index , and foods like eggs , cheese , and meats have the lowest glycemic index .	describe how the digestive system responds differently to foods high in starchy carbohydrates with and without fiber as part of the same meal .	describe how the digestive system responds differently to foods high in starchy carbohydrates with and without fiber as part of the same meal .
do n't wait until you make your first million to make a difference in somebody 's life . if you have something to give , give it now . serve food at a soup kitchen .	the mission statement of the oklahoma state firefighters association looks something like this : `` we protect lives , property , and the environment , with compassion , vigilance , and dedication to excellence . '' why do heroes often share similar character traits ?	the mission statement of the oklahoma state firefighters association looks something like this : `` we protect lives , property , and the environment , with compassion , vigilance , and dedication to excellence . '' why do heroes often share similar character traits ?
the pencil looks yellow because it reflects yellow light more than it reflects the other colors . what happens to the blue , purple and red light ? they get absorbed and the energy they are carrying is turned into heat .	explain what happens when light passes through a prism . what other common object refracts light ?	explain what happens when light passes through a prism . what other common object refracts light ?
what makes a book a book ? is it just anything that stores and communicates information ?	what is the evolution of book covers ?	what is the evolution of book covers ?
what makes a book a book ? is it just anything that stores and communicates information ?	what is a book ?	what is a book ?
what makes a book a book ? is it just anything that stores and communicates information ?	if you had the choice to read your favorite book on an electronic device or in its physical form which would you pick ?	if you had the choice to read your favorite book on an electronic device or in its physical form which would you pick ?
what makes a book a book ? is it just anything that stores and communicates information ?	will the book as we know it become merely a thing of the past ?	will the book as we know it become merely a thing of the past ?
each time you reach beyond the next degree of contacts , you have access to three more people , like a tree that branches out three times per node , so you can look beyond your closest circles . during the last family get-together , did n't you hear that your aunt 's friend studied lighting with a nature photographer on the west coast ? in fact , you recall this because you saw a recent image by said photographer on the front cover of < i > the new york times < /i > .	a friend or friend of a friend with a well-connected network is invaluable because :	a friend or friend of a friend with a well-connected network is invaluable because :
when hookworms sink their teeth into the intestinal wall , they secrete chemicals that blunt the immune system . some studies suggest that hookworms can treat allergies , which may be another reason allergies are more common in industrialized countries where hookworms are few and far between . of course , you can always just wait your seasonal allergies out .	allergies seem to be influenced by :	allergies seem to be influenced by :
when hookworms sink their teeth into the intestinal wall , they secrete chemicals that blunt the immune system . some studies suggest that hookworms can treat allergies , which may be another reason allergies are more common in industrialized countries where hookworms are few and far between . of course , you can always just wait your seasonal allergies out .	which of the following is not used to treat allergies ?	which of the following is not used to treat allergies ?
how did horseshoe crabs end up with such special blood ? like other invertebrates , the horseshoe crab has an open circulatory system . this means their blood is n't contained in blood vessels , like ours .	what are some similarities and differences between the human circulatory system and a horseshoe crab ’ s ?	what are some similarities and differences between the human circulatory system and a horseshoe crab ’ s ?
that flicker of charge is enough to attract molecules to each other . such interactions between uncharged molecules are called van der waals forces . they 're not as strong as the interactions between charged particles , but if you have enough of them , they can really add up .	electronegativity typically increases from left to right across the periodic table . just on the basis of electronegativity , would you expect the van der waals interactions to be stronger between ch4 or h2o ?	electronegativity typically increases from left to right across the periodic table . just on the basis of electronegativity , would you expect the van der waals interactions to be stronger between ch4 or h2o ?
that flicker of charge is enough to attract molecules to each other . such interactions between uncharged molecules are called van der waals forces . they 're not as strong as the interactions between charged particles , but if you have enough of them , they can really add up .	a gecko ’ s skin is largely made of proteins , very long molecules which contain atoms of different electronegativities . explain how van der waals forces within proteins can cause them to fold into complex shapes .	a gecko ’ s skin is largely made of proteins , very long molecules which contain atoms of different electronegativities . explain how van der waals forces within proteins can cause them to fold into complex shapes .
one of the most notable examples being fdr 's 1942 executive order . he gave the military authority to target predominantly japanese-americans , as well as german-americans and italian-americans , in certain regions across the country . this executive order also removed any or all of those people into military zones , most commonly known as internment camps .	many presidents believe issuing executive orders is more effective than working with congress and passing laws . what other ways can presidents move their agenda forward ? do you think president roosevelt was fair when he gave the military authority to target japanese-americans , german-americans , and italian-americans in certain regions across the country and put them in internment camps ? did he overreach his power ?	many presidents believe issuing executive orders is more effective than working with congress and passing laws . what other ways can presidents move their agenda forward ? do you think president roosevelt was fair when he gave the military authority to target japanese-americans , german-americans , and italian-americans in certain regions across the country and put them in internment camps ? did he overreach his power ?
tulip mania is an effective illustration of the underlying principles at work in a bubble and can help us understand more recent examples like the real estate bubble of the late 2000s . the economy will continue to go through phases of booms and busts . so while we wait for the next mania to start , and the next bubble to burst , treat yourself to a bouquet of tulips and enjoy the fact that you did n't have to pay an arm and a leg for them .	gold , ipads , cell phones , and computers are all items that frequently go up and down in value . what do you think are the two main reasons this frequent change may occur ?	gold , ipads , cell phones , and computers are all items that frequently go up and down in value . what do you think are the two main reasons this frequent change may occur ?
with the advent of the internet , the process became directly observable in how jokes and images were popularized at lightning speed . and soon , the word came to refer to a certain kind of image . so meme not only describes how words become part of language , the word is a meme itself . and there 's a word for this phenomenon of words that describe themselves : autological .	the word meme came about through :	the word meme came about through :
xenia has a significant role in the `` odyssey , '' where odysseus in his wanderings is the perpetual guest , while in his absence , his clever wife penelope plays non-stop host . the `` odyssey '' recounts all of odysseus 's years of travel , but the narrative begins in medias res in the middle of things . ten years after the trojan war , we find our hero trapped on an island , still far from his native ithaca and the family he has n't seen for 20 years .	recall that the poem begins in medias res , in the middle of things . from a narrative standpoint , what are some benefits of beginning in this fashion ?	recall that the poem begins in medias res , in the middle of things . from a narrative standpoint , what are some benefits of beginning in this fashion ?
there 's a frenchman who can help , another thinker who did n't define comedy because he expressly did n't want to . henri bergson 's a french philosopher who prefaced his essay on laughter by saying he would n't define `` the comic '' because it 's a living thing . he argued laughter has a social function to destroy mechanical inelasticity in people 's attitudes and behavior . someone doing the same thing over and over , or building up a false image of themself and the world , or not adapting to reality by just noticing the banana peel on the ground -- this is automatism , ignorance of one 's own mindless rigidity , and it 's dangerous but also laughable and comic ridicule helps correct it .	imagine an ideal society where everything ’ s working out great , and a terrible society where everything ’ s falling apart : which one has more laughter in it ?	imagine an ideal society where everything ’ s working out great , and a terrible society where everything ’ s falling apart : which one has more laughter in it ?
two major superpowers trying to outdo each other by pursuing symbolic projects that were both dangerous and expensive , using resources that could have been better spent elsewhere ? well , sure , sort of , but the biggest benefits of the space program had nothing to do with one country beating another . during the space race , funding for research and education , in general , increased dramatically , leading to many advances that may not have otherwise been made .	which one of these advancements is not directly related to the space program ?	which one of these advancements is not directly related to the space program ?
translator : jessica ruby reviewer : caroline cristal you may not realize it , but from the moment you got out of bed today to the point where you sat down to watch this video , you 've essentially been swimming . why ?	if you filled a balloon on earth and brought it to the moon , it would ________ .	if you filled a balloon on earth and brought it to the moon , it would ________ .
some recent studies even contradict the idea . regardless , toxoplasma has definitely benefited from humans to become one of the world 's most successful parasites . it 's not just our willingness to let cats on our dining room tables or in our beds .	which animals can become infected with toxoplasma ?	which animals can become infected with toxoplasma ?
some recent studies even contradict the idea . regardless , toxoplasma has definitely benefited from humans to become one of the world 's most successful parasites . it 's not just our willingness to let cats on our dining room tables or in our beds .	when are humans at risk of becoming infected with toxoplasma ?	when are humans at risk of becoming infected with toxoplasma ?
some recent studies even contradict the idea . regardless , toxoplasma has definitely benefited from humans to become one of the world 's most successful parasites . it 's not just our willingness to let cats on our dining room tables or in our beds .	toxoplasma is one of the most common parasites in the world . how did it become so successful ?	toxoplasma is one of the most common parasites in the world . how did it become so successful ?
there , transcription factors trigger the manufacture of proteins required to carry out light-dependent processes , like photosynthesis . these phytochromes not only sense the amount of light the plant receives , but can also detect tiny differences in the distribution of wavelengths the plant takes in . with this fine-tuned sensing , phytochromes allow the plant to discern both time , the difference between the middle of the day and the evening , and place , whether it is in direct sunlight or shade , enabling the plant to match its chemical reactions to its environment .	where are phytochromes located in a plant ?	where are phytochromes located in a plant ?
there , transcription factors trigger the manufacture of proteins required to carry out light-dependent processes , like photosynthesis . these phytochromes not only sense the amount of light the plant receives , but can also detect tiny differences in the distribution of wavelengths the plant takes in . with this fine-tuned sensing , phytochromes allow the plant to discern both time , the difference between the middle of the day and the evening , and place , whether it is in direct sunlight or shade , enabling the plant to match its chemical reactions to its environment .	how do phytochromes work within the plant cell ?	how do phytochromes work within the plant cell ?
the source of the word gorgeous can be found in the latin word , gurges , used by the romans to describe a whirling , swirling whirlpool . thanks to the aquatic phenomenon 's cylindrical shape and gurgling form , gurges also came to mean throat . by the time gurges reached england in the 14th century , it had been altered to gorge . this , to the english , seemed like an appropriate way to describe a steep and rocky ravine , a metaphorical extension of the words referenced to the throat .	what does gurges refer to ?	what does gurges refer to ?
the portals are membrane proteins which allow very specific materials and information to pass through the walls at the right times . many interactions between robot proteins require some kind of push , think robot minimum wage . a few small but crucial forms of money are transferred between proteins to provide this push .	you might already know that cells evolve from one generation to another . random mutations in the dna of a cell can cause certain proteins to function differently than before . mutations ensure genetic diversity across a particular species and can help that species survive when it ’ s faced with environmental pressures . how would you extend the robot/factory analogy to accommodate this new information ?	you might already know that cells evolve from one generation to another . random mutations in the dna of a cell can cause certain proteins to function differently than before . mutations ensure genetic diversity across a particular species and can help that species survive when it ’ s faced with environmental pressures . how would you extend the robot/factory analogy to accommodate this new information ?
to do those things , they need assembly instructions , raw materials , plenty of energy , a few rules about when to work normally , when to work quickly , or when to stop , and some exchange currencies because even robots need to get paid . each factory has a high security office with blueprints for all the possible factory configurations and complete sets of instructions to make all the different types of robots a factory could ever need . special robots photocopy these instructions and send them off to help make the building blocks of more robots .	barriers separate different zones of the factory , and membranes separate different parts of a cell . what do these barriers contribute to the operation ?	barriers separate different zones of the factory , and membranes separate different parts of a cell . what do these barriers contribute to the operation ?
if you shied away from the excruciating chiseling in of your moko design , your unfinished tattoo marked your cowardice . today , unless you go the traditional route , your tattoo artist will probably use a tattoo machine based on the one patented by samuel o'reilly in 1891 , itself based on thomas edison 's stencil machine from 1876 . but with the incredibly broad history of tattoos giving you so many options , what are you going to get ?	what is the modern tattoo machine based on ?	what is the modern tattoo machine based on ?
the end of hawaii 's independence coincided with surfing 's native-led revival , a revival soon exploited by the american colonizers . but first , some hawaiians took surfing overseas . in 1907 , george freeth , the so-called hawaiian wonder , traveled to the west coast and gave surfing demonstrations in southern california . then in 1914 , olympic swimmer duke kahanamoku made his way to australia and new zealand , gliding across the southern pacific waves and attracting rapt audiences wherever he went .	how was hawaiian culture reflected in surfing ?	how was hawaiian culture reflected in surfing ?
as the united states and soviet union faced off across the globe , each knew that the other had nuclear weapons capable of destroying it . and destruction never loomed closer than during the 13 days of the cuban missile crisis . in 1961 , the u.s. unsuccessfully tried to overthrow cuba 's new communist government .	the cuban missile crisis is when the us reached which defcon level ?	the cuban missile crisis is when the us reached which defcon level ?
as the united states and soviet union faced off across the globe , each knew that the other had nuclear weapons capable of destroying it . and destruction never loomed closer than during the 13 days of the cuban missile crisis . in 1961 , the u.s. unsuccessfully tried to overthrow cuba 's new communist government .	how does the cuban missile crisis show that “ cooler heads prevailed '' ?	how does the cuban missile crisis show that “ cooler heads prevailed '' ?
when we recorded this narration , astronomers had discovered 16,407 near-earth asteroids , but since we find new asteroids all the time , that number will have grown by hundreds or thousands by the time you watch this . today , asteroid hunters use modern telescopes , including one in space . computers analyze the images , and humans check the output before reporting the asteroid observations to an archiving center .	what challenges do asteroid hunters face ? what might be a reason they aren ’ t able to spot an asteroid ?	what challenges do asteroid hunters face ? what might be a reason they aren ’ t able to spot an asteroid ?
when we recorded this narration , astronomers had discovered 16,407 near-earth asteroids , but since we find new asteroids all the time , that number will have grown by hundreds or thousands by the time you watch this . today , asteroid hunters use modern telescopes , including one in space . computers analyze the images , and humans check the output before reporting the asteroid observations to an archiving center .	modern asteroid hunters use :	modern asteroid hunters use :
both position and momentum are now uncertain , and the uncertainties are connected . if you want to reduce the position uncertainty by making a smaller wave packet , you need to add more waves , which means a bigger momentum uncertainty . if you want to know the momentum better , you need a bigger wave packet , which means a bigger position uncertainty .	there is a relationship similar to the heisenberg uncertainty principle for position and momentum between the uncertainty in the energy of a particle and the uncertainty in the time at which that energy is measured—a smaller energy uncertainty means a bigger time uncertainty , and vice versa . in quantum physics , the energy of a particle is related to the frequency at which the wave associated with that particle oscillates ( that is , the number of times per second that the wave goes from peak to valley and back ) . given that , can you explain the origin of the energy-time uncertainty relationship ?	there is a relationship similar to the heisenberg uncertainty principle for position and momentum between the uncertainty in the energy of a particle and the uncertainty in the time at which that energy is measured—a smaller energy uncertainty means a bigger time uncertainty , and vice versa . in quantum physics , the energy of a particle is related to the frequency at which the wave associated with that particle oscillates ( that is , the number of times per second that the wave goes from peak to valley and back ) . given that , can you explain the origin of the energy-time uncertainty relationship ?
both position and momentum are now uncertain , and the uncertainties are connected . if you want to reduce the position uncertainty by making a smaller wave packet , you need to add more waves , which means a bigger momentum uncertainty . if you want to know the momentum better , you need a bigger wave packet , which means a bigger position uncertainty .	if you want to make a smaller wave packet , you need to :	if you want to make a smaller wave packet , you need to :
they double as a possible means of detecting intelligent life in the universe . if we find a dyson sphere around a distant star , that 's a pretty compelling sign of life . or , what if , instead of a structure that passively soaked up all the star 's energy , like a plant , an alien civilization built one that actively sucked the energy out of the star like a hummingbird .	what are the pros and cons of both a dyson sphere and active energy extraction from a star ?	what are the pros and cons of both a dyson sphere and active energy extraction from a star ?
unfortunately , the world is an unpredictable place and exposure to triggers ca n't always be controlled . this is where inhalers , the primary treatment for asthma , come in . these medications help asthmatics both control and prevent their asthma symptoms . inhalers transport medication along the affected airways using a liquid mist or fine powder to treat the problem at its source .	how do beta-agonist inhalers help relieve the symptoms of asthma ?	how do beta-agonist inhalers help relieve the symptoms of asthma ?
and although he did become the fourth caliph , that initial disagreement — to radically oversimplify because we only have ten minutes — began the divide between the two of the major sects of islam : suuni and shi ’ a . and even today , sunnis muslims believe abu bakr was rightly elected the first caliph and shi ’ a muslims believe it should ’ ve been ali . to sunnis , the first four caliphs—abu bakr , umar , uthman , and ali— are known as the rightly guided caliphs , and many of the conservative movements in the islamic world today are all about trying to restore the islamic world to those glory days , which—like most glory days—were not unambiguously glorious .	what are the main differences between the various `` kinds '' of muslims ?	what are the main differences between the various `` kinds '' of muslims ?
even moving the air from above a clipped plant to another one made the second plant more insect-resistant . these airborne cues increase the likelihood of seedling survival , and made adult plants produce more new branches and flowers . but why would a plant warn its neighbors of danger , especially if they 're competing for resources ?	when plants emit cues , the information in those cues becomes available :	when plants emit cues , the information in those cues becomes available :
it 's a very funny book . it has highbrow intellectual humor , if you have the patience to track down joyce 's references , and more lowbrow dirty jokes . those , and other sexual references , were too much for some . in the u.s. , the book was put on trial , banned , and censored before it had even been completed because it was originally published as a serial novel .	references to which famous italian writer can be found in ulysses ?	references to which famous italian writer can be found in ulysses ?
so , what are these `` e '' words , and what 's their big idea ? let 's start with enthalpy , an increase or decrease of energy during a chemical reaction . every molecule has a certain amount of chemical potential energy stored within the bonds between its atoms .	an increase or decrease in energy during a chemical reaction is called _____ .	an increase or decrease in energy during a chemical reaction is called _____ .
since the only column missing both these values is the center one , this must be the brit 's red-walled home . now that the only unassigned wall color is yellow , this must be applied to the first house , where clue seven says the dunhill smoker lives . and clue eleven tells you that the owner of the horse is next door , which can only be the second house .	by process of elimination , which wall color is discovered last ?	by process of elimination , which wall color is discovered last ?
the varnish was a family recipe , as closely guarded as one for risotto or a homemade sauce . yet even with the woodwork finished , the gondola was still not complete . specialized artisans supplied their gondola-making colleagues with elaborate covered passenger compartments , upholstery and ornaments of steel and brass . oar makers became integral partners to the gondola makers .	do you think it ’ s important to preserve traditional crafts such as gondola making ? if so , how can this be accomplished ?	do you think it ’ s important to preserve traditional crafts such as gondola making ? if so , how can this be accomplished ?
international authorities and ngos have called for requiring companies to state who ultimately makes their decisions and benefits from their assets . but while progress is being made , international cooperation has been difficult to achieve , as governments that profit from registering anonymous companies are reluctant to lose business . and some of the most popular places for this practice are located not on remote , tropical tax shelters , but within the same advanced nations which claim to be leading the fight for global financial transparency . but still , it 's a fight worth fighting .	what are some obstacles facing international cooperation on financial transparency ?	what are some obstacles facing international cooperation on financial transparency ?
but accidents can and will still happen , and when they do , their outcomes may be determined months or years in advance by programmers or policy makers . and they 'll have some difficult decisions to make . it 's tempting to offer up general decision-making principles , like minimize harm , but even that quickly leads to morally murky decisions . for example , let 's say we have the same initial set up , but now there 's a motorcyclist wearing a helmet to your left and another one without a helmet to your right .	which design principle for crash decisions seems the most ethical to you and why : to minimize harm , protect the driver over other drivers , treat everyone equally , hand back control to the driver , follow the law , or something else ?	which design principle for crash decisions seems the most ethical to you and why : to minimize harm , protect the driver over other drivers , treat everyone equally , hand back control to the driver , follow the law , or something else ?
we can see here each position is further apart . the change in position between frames is the spacing . the smaller the change , the slower the action will appear .	why is it so important to adjust spacing ?	why is it so important to adjust spacing ?
the tokugawa military group , or bakufu , was fueled by confucian ideals and often enacted sanctions on costume fabrics , stage weaponry , and the subject matter of the plot . at the same time , kabuki became closely associated with and influenced by bunraku , an elaborate form of puppet theater . due to these influences , the once spontaneous , one-act dance evolved into a structured , five-act play often based on the tenets of confucian philosophy . before 1868 , when the tokugawa shogunate fell and emperor meiji was restored to power , japan had practiced isolation from other countries , or sakoku .	due to the influence of the tokugawa military and bunraku , kabuki soon evolved into a structured _______ play .	due to the influence of the tokugawa military and bunraku , kabuki soon evolved into a structured _______ play .
this time , they observed 10,000 galaxies . half of these galaxies have since been analyzed more clearly in what 's known as the extreme deep field image , or xdf . by combining over ten years of photographs , the xdf shows galaxies so distant that they 're only one ten-billionth the brightness that the human eye can perceive .	the first hubble ultra deep field image showed 1500 galaxies total , but how many were seen in the upgraded hubble extreme deep field image ?	the first hubble ultra deep field image showed 1500 galaxies total , but how many were seen in the upgraded hubble extreme deep field image ?
let 's see what happens if we model this equation on a coordinate grid . since the formula is quadratic , the relationship between height and time spent in the air has the shape of a parabola . so what does it tell us about mj 's dunk ?	what type of function is the relationship between height and hang time ?	what type of function is the relationship between height and hang time ?
at this stage , it 's helpful to use anti-social skill number three : muttering to yourself . when you speak your character 's words , you can hear whether they sound natural , and fix them if necessary . remember , most people are usually pretty informal when they speak .	a character may speak differently depending on his or her age or geographic region . what are some other factors that may affect the way a character speaks ?	a character may speak differently depending on his or her age or geographic region . what are some other factors that may affect the way a character speaks ?
what are the rules ? so , this leads us to things like studying where it all began , 13.7 billion years ago , the big bang . we know matter and energy as we understand it was created , but also , space and time itself .	why do we call things electronics ( like our mp3 players and our smart phones ) ?	why do we call things electronics ( like our mp3 players and our smart phones ) ?
as seneca , one of the `most famous roman stoics wrote , `` sometimes , even to live is an act of courage . '' but while stoicism focuses on personal improvement , it 's not a self-centered philosophy . at a time when roman laws considered slaves as property , seneca called for their humane treatment and stressed that we all share the same fundamental humanity .	which of these philosophies and schools of personal therapy do not have strong commonalities with stoicism ?	which of these philosophies and schools of personal therapy do not have strong commonalities with stoicism ?
his journal is the reason we can tell this story . magellan 's legacy lingers . he had galaxies and space programs named after him .	which of the assertions below is not true with regard to ferdinand magellan ?	which of the assertions below is not true with regard to ferdinand magellan ?
his journal is the reason we can tell this story . magellan 's legacy lingers . he had galaxies and space programs named after him .	how long did it take magellan to cross what is now known as the strait of magellan ?	how long did it take magellan to cross what is now known as the strait of magellan ?
these are gravitationl waves . what would a gravitational wave feel like ? if our bodies were sensitive enough to detect them , we 'd feel like we were being stretched sideways while being compressed vertically .	if a gravitational wave was strong enough for you to feel , what would it feel like ?	if a gravitational wave was strong enough for you to feel , what would it feel like ?
would they develop normally , or would they be different in some way ? one reason why you might think that it would go down a different pathway is from an experiment that was done some time ago by two neuroscientists called hubel and wiesel . and what they did is they had a kitten , and they put a patch over the eye of the kitten .	what animal was used in the famous hubel and wiesel experiments ?	what animal was used in the famous hubel and wiesel experiments ?
but sometimes , unlike oil , seawater , and blood , the parts of mixtures that we want to separate share the same physical properties . in these cases , the only way to isolate ingredients is by chemical separation , a complex process that relies on unique interactions between components within a mixture and another material . one of these methods is chromatography , a tool forensic scientists use to examine crime scenes . they dissolve gathered evidence in a gas , and can monitor and analyze the ingredients as they separate and move at varying speeds due to their unique chemical properties .	which one of the substances below can be separated to its ingredients by chemical methods ?	which one of the substances below can be separated to its ingredients by chemical methods ?
people listened to scientists and took action . now scientists predict that the hole in the ozone layer will be healed around 2050 . that ’ s actually pretty amazing .	when do scientists predict the hole in the ozone layer will be healed ?	when do scientists predict the hole in the ozone layer will be healed ?
pi from pies , we got 3.13834 , which is approximately 3.14 . so using pies , we 've got pi to be 3.14 . i am a very happy man right now .	even with more of the circular pies , why would it have been impossible to cover the area of the circle with them and calculate pi using the area of a circle formula area = pi * r^2 ?	even with more of the circular pies , why would it have been impossible to cover the area of the circle with them and calculate pi using the area of a circle formula area = pi * r^2 ?
and at some point , all of us are going to be in that position , where we have to make a very important decision about the future of our medical care or that of a loved one , to help them with a decision . and so i want to talk about that . and i 'm going to talk about a very particular medical condition .	briefly describe the idea of prospective hindsight , citing the two examples that levitin gives in his talk .	briefly describe the idea of prospective hindsight , citing the two examples that levitin gives in his talk .
well , it 's rather simple . in any fermi problem , it is assumed that the overestimates and underestimates balance each other out , and produce an estimation that is usually within one order of magnitude of the actual answer . in our case we can confirm this by looking in the phone book for the number of piano tuners listed in chicago .	devise a problem that you can solve using fermi 's method of estimation . make sure you can solve the problem yourself , and then keep it tucked away to share with your friends . explain the problem you designed below !	devise a problem that you can solve using fermi 's method of estimation . make sure you can solve the problem yourself , and then keep it tucked away to share with your friends . explain the problem you designed below !
yet the voyage had to continue . magellan 's will specified that enrique should be freed , but the expedition still needed an interpreter . with his freedom at stake , enrique is believed to have plotted with the rajah to have about 30 of the spaniards killed at a feast on the beach .	what was magellan trying to accomplish when he proposed an expedition to king charles i , of spain ?	what was magellan trying to accomplish when he proposed an expedition to king charles i , of spain ?
that may be why people with a moderate amount of experience or expertise often have less confidence in their abilities . they know enough to know that there 's a lot they do n't know . meanwhile , experts tend to be aware of just how knowledgeable they are .	experts tend to think that other people know what they know and can do what they find easy . what leads them to make this mistake ?	experts tend to think that other people know what they know and can do what they find easy . what leads them to make this mistake ?
some of the things we had imagined were beginning to come to fruition , and we were actually seeing this in a clinical context . but there was still a problem . the problem was , the way we manufactured these systems was very inefficient , had low yield and was very error-prone .	what recommendation did the nurses in the hospitals where todd coleman and his team were testing their devices make ? how did this advice help fix their manufacturing problem ?	what recommendation did the nurses in the hospitals where todd coleman and his team were testing their devices make ? how did this advice help fix their manufacturing problem ?
and those rays that first get reflected by a surface , like a nearby building , before reaching the solar energy system are called reflected irradiance . but before we can examine how clouds affect the sun 's rays and electricity production , let 's see how these solar energy systems work . first up , we have solar towers . these are made up of a central tower surrounded by a huge field of mirrors that track the sun 's path and focus only the direct rays onto a single point on the tower , kind of like an eager beachgoer .	do solar towers that produce energy from the sun work at night ?	do solar towers that produce energy from the sun work at night ?
and because these tiny soldiers need to travel through the blood to get to the wound site , the previously constricted blood vessels now expand in a process called vasodilation . about two to three days after the wound , the proliferative stage occurs , when fibroblast cells begin to enter the wound . in the process of collagen deposition , they produce a fibrous protein called collagen in the wound site , forming connective skin tissue to replace the fibrin from before .	what can be an undesired outcome following wound healing ?	what can be an undesired outcome following wound healing ?
and because these tiny soldiers need to travel through the blood to get to the wound site , the previously constricted blood vessels now expand in a process called vasodilation . about two to three days after the wound , the proliferative stage occurs , when fibroblast cells begin to enter the wound . in the process of collagen deposition , they produce a fibrous protein called collagen in the wound site , forming connective skin tissue to replace the fibrin from before .	applying plant extract and herbal medicine has been a long documented approach in alternative/complementary medicine to accelerate wound healing . do you think that these approaches are viable ? how would you scientifically validate their effect on wound healing ?	applying plant extract and herbal medicine has been a long documented approach in alternative/complementary medicine to accelerate wound healing . do you think that these approaches are viable ? how would you scientifically validate their effect on wound healing ?
it turned out that the cotton swabs used to collect the dna samples had all been accidentally contaminated by a woman working in the swab factory . in other cases , systematic errors arise through deliberate fraud , like the presidential referendum held by saddam hussein in 2002 , which claimed a turnout of 100 % of voters with all 100 % supposedly voting in favor of another seven-year term . when you look at it this way , the paradox of unanimity is n't actually all that paradoxical .	brainstorm a scenario from everyday life where the 100 % agreement of a lot of people is likely to be correct .	brainstorm a scenario from everyday life where the 100 % agreement of a lot of people is likely to be correct .
when most people stand up , their center of mass is around the belly , but what happens to your center of mass when you lift your hands in the air ? your center of mass moves upwards . it moves all the time as you move through the day , based on how your body is positioned .	what is the best definition for the center of mass of an object ?	what is the best definition for the center of mass of an object ?
when most people stand up , their center of mass is around the belly , but what happens to your center of mass when you lift your hands in the air ? your center of mass moves upwards . it moves all the time as you move through the day , based on how your body is positioned .	complete the sentence : your center of mass _______ .	complete the sentence : your center of mass _______ .
when most people stand up , their center of mass is around the belly , but what happens to your center of mass when you lift your hands in the air ? your center of mass moves upwards . it moves all the time as you move through the day , based on how your body is positioned .	you can locate the center of mass of an object by doing what ? choose all answers that apply .	you can locate the center of mass of an object by doing what ? choose all answers that apply .
when most people stand up , their center of mass is around the belly , but what happens to your center of mass when you lift your hands in the air ? your center of mass moves upwards . it moves all the time as you move through the day , based on how your body is positioned .	how is it possible to jump over the bar without bringing your center of mass above it ?	how is it possible to jump over the bar without bringing your center of mass above it ?
but what i 've learned through speaking with people and writing about these ideas on my website , is that there are some tremendous strengths to being this way . here are three multipotentialite super powers . one : idea synthesis .	what are the three 'multipotentialite ' super powers ?	what are the three 'multipotentialite ' super powers ?
as references to a search object increase , the number of links also increases , creating a node . as the node increases in size , it eventually becomes a hub , which links to many nodes . networks will continue to emerge as new ways of connecting and creating neighborhoods are defined .	as a node increases in size , it eventually becomes a ______ .	as a node increases in size , it eventually becomes a ______ .
the word `` two , '' for example , needs its `` w '' in order to mark its connection to words like `` twice , '' `` twelve , '' `` twenty , '' `` twin '' and `` between . '' a word 's history is another layer of the onion . with that understanding , let 's investigate the word `` one . ''	the word onion	the word onion
by the way , did you notice the introduction to this lesson ? it did n't start with `` here 's how to write a thesis and introduction . '' would that have hooked you ?	you 've probably had to write something you did n't find enjoyable . what are some things that you can do to make writing a pleasurable experience ? have you ever read anything that you felt like a writer did n't want to write ? how did you know , and what advice would you give them to make sure this does n't happen again ?	you 've probably had to write something you did n't find enjoyable . what are some things that you can do to make writing a pleasurable experience ? have you ever read anything that you felt like a writer did n't want to write ? how did you know , and what advice would you give them to make sure this does n't happen again ?
stop thieving our aspirations out of our sleep . do n't call it financial aid if you 're not helping anyone with it . we have fought .	when lissaint says , “ don ’ t call it financial aid if you ’ re not helping anyone with it , ” he ’ s pointing out that the term is	when lissaint says , “ don ’ t call it financial aid if you ’ re not helping anyone with it , ” he ’ s pointing out that the term is
and we have other senses , besides the typical five , such as the sense of balance and a sense of the relative location of our body parts . the rubber hand illusion , and similar virtual reality experiments , show that our senses can easily mislead us in our judgment of self . they also suggest that our bodies and external sensations are inseparable from our subjective consciousness .	what can we learn from rubber hand illusion or other virtual reality experiments ?	what can we learn from rubber hand illusion or other virtual reality experiments ?
and we have other senses , besides the typical five , such as the sense of balance and a sense of the relative location of our body parts . the rubber hand illusion , and similar virtual reality experiments , show that our senses can easily mislead us in our judgment of self . they also suggest that our bodies and external sensations are inseparable from our subjective consciousness .	the rubber hand illusion is an example of how our sensations can mislead us in our judgment of self . can you think of other experimental conditions that induce a similar illusion ?	the rubber hand illusion is an example of how our sensations can mislead us in our judgment of self . can you think of other experimental conditions that induce a similar illusion ?
this is totality and if you get a chance to see it , you should . the moon orbits earth every 29.5 days , but we don ’ t get eclipses every month . that ’ s because the moon ’ s orbit is not in line with earth ’ s orbit .	by how much are the orbits of earth and the moon separated ?	by how much are the orbits of earth and the moon separated ?
and its prevalence is rapidly increasing all over the world . as much as 32 % of the population in the u.s. has metabolic syndrome . so let 's get back to your diet .	what is thought to be the underlying cause of metabolic syndrome ?	what is thought to be the underlying cause of metabolic syndrome ?
these kinds of sequences were first analyzed by mathematician john conway , who noted they have some interesting properties . for instance , starting with the number 22 , yields an infinite loop of two twos . but when seeded with any other number , the sequence grows in some very specific ways .	which of these numbers creates an infinite loop if you start the sequence with it ?	which of these numbers creates an infinite loop if you start the sequence with it ?
chat with a friend about an established scientific theory and she might reply , `` well , that 's just a theory . '' but a conversation about an established scientific law rarely ends with , `` well , that 's just a law . ''	which of the following might be an example of a theory ?	which of the following might be an example of a theory ?
the idea is that cancer cells , well all cells are liable to be killed by radiation , by radioactivity when they are dividing so cancer cells are cells in the body which are dividing much faster , out-of-control compared to other cells , so if you radiate a patient , the cancer cells , because they are dividing faster , die quicker , so overall although a lot of cells die , the cancer cells die further . the people , who discovered radium , were really excited about it and they were mad with hindsight in the way they treated it . they carried sort of little glass tubes of radium in their pockets and were then surprised when they found burns on their flesh the next day and it ’ s thought that the reason why many of these researchers like madam curie ’ s husband and madam curie died rather young was the effect of the radioactivity of the elements that they handled .	where in old watches can we find radium ?	where in old watches can we find radium ?
a few brave painters , who for many centuries , had been paid by the square foot , successfully petitioned their patrons to pay them on the basis of merit instead . within a single generation , people 's attitudes about objects and their makers would shift dramatically , such that in 1550 , giorgio vasari , not incidentally a friend of michelangelo , published an influential book called , `` lives of the most excellent painters , sculptors and architects , '' elevating these types of creators to rock star status by sharing juicy biographical details . in the mind of the public , painting , sculpture and architecture were now considered art , and their makers creative masterminds : artists .	who authored a book in 1550 entitled lives of the most excellent painters , sculptors , and architects , which rocketed several renaissance artists to fame ?	who authored a book in 1550 entitled lives of the most excellent painters , sculptors , and architects , which rocketed several renaissance artists to fame ?
the colorado plateau now uplifts , likely due to a combination of upward mantle flow and a thickened north american plate . in future millennia , the colorado river will eventually sculpt the plateau into the epic grand canyon . 30 million years ago , the majority of the farallon plate sinks into the mantle , leaving behind only small corners still subducting .	in order for the colorado river to carve the deep grand canyon , what must happen first ?	in order for the colorado river to carve the deep grand canyon , what must happen first ?
their alarms calls indicate the predator 's size , shape , speed , and , even for human predators , what the person is wearing and if he 's carrying a gun . great apes , like chimps and gorillas , are great communicators , too . some have even learned a modified sign language .	great apes like koko and washoe :	great apes like koko and washoe :
there are several things about eels that make them unique besides their elongated shape and limbless bodies . for one thing , eels have the ability to breathe through their skin . some can even leave the water and move over land for short periods .	eels have what incredible ability ?	eels have what incredible ability ?
as far as i know that , einsteinium has absolutely nothing to do with einstein , it just that people suddenly decided that they would name elements after famous scientists because they , they had run out of names of america and places like that . i seem to remember at gcse-level , i don ’ t even think the f elements are even on the periodic table . i think they are at a-level onwards .	in which row of the periodic table do we find einsteinium ?	in which row of the periodic table do we find einsteinium ?
but could the species with the most drastic environmental impact be a group of primates who emerged from africa to cover most of the world ? are we an invasive species ?	the introduction of invasive species is one of the major causes of species extinction . explain how this is possible .	the introduction of invasive species is one of the major causes of species extinction . explain how this is possible .
once all that air is inside , it must come out through the mouth , but there , an internal battle takes place as the musician simultaneously tries to hold their lips firmly closed while blowing enough air to force them open . the escaping air meets resistance from the lip muscles , forms an opening called the aperture and creates the vibration that brass players call `` the buzz . '' when a mouthpiece is held up to those vibrating lips , it slightly refines the buzz , amplifying the vibration at certain frequencies .	the escaping air meets resistance from the lip muscles , which forms a hole called the _____ , and creates the vibration that brass players call the buzz .	the escaping air meets resistance from the lip muscles , which forms a hole called the _____ , and creates the vibration that brass players call the buzz .
it 's up to the animators to create the many planes , or layers . the use of green screen enables us to shoot individual elements moving , and to later assemble those layers one on top of the other . using software , we key out the green color , both on the background and play-doh .	the use of green screen enables us to shoot individual elements moving . later , we could assemble those layers , one on top of the other .	the use of green screen enables us to shoot individual elements moving . later , we could assemble those layers , one on top of the other .
this device directs the pacemaker to malfunction , ultimately resulting in the foreign leader 's death . would this cyber assassination constitute an act of war ? as a second example , imagine an allied group of nations cooperatively infiltrating the computer systems of an enemy nation 's nuclear warship .	a cyber attack by a sovereign nation that takes down a city power grid constitutes an act of war .	a cyber attack by a sovereign nation that takes down a city power grid constitutes an act of war .
this device directs the pacemaker to malfunction , ultimately resulting in the foreign leader 's death . would this cyber assassination constitute an act of war ? as a second example , imagine an allied group of nations cooperatively infiltrating the computer systems of an enemy nation 's nuclear warship .	what is the name of the un rules of cyber engagement ?	what is the name of the un rules of cyber engagement ?
this device directs the pacemaker to malfunction , ultimately resulting in the foreign leader 's death . would this cyber assassination constitute an act of war ? as a second example , imagine an allied group of nations cooperatively infiltrating the computer systems of an enemy nation 's nuclear warship .	how should us companies handle a cyber attack by a sovereign nation ?	how should us companies handle a cyber attack by a sovereign nation ?
in physics , we talk about two types of motion . the first is straight-line motion . you push on something , and it moves forward .	if something is moving in a straight line and there are no forces acting on it , it will :	if something is moving in a straight line and there are no forces acting on it , it will :
brisket comes from across chest area of cow , right here , and since cattle do n't have collarbones like us , this muscle has to support more than half their body weight . that means it 's got a lot of three things : hard-working muscle , fat , and connective tissue . it 's basically the opposite of filet mignon .	why is it important to cook meat that has a lot of connective tissue and fat , like a brisket , slowly ?	why is it important to cook meat that has a lot of connective tissue and fat , like a brisket , slowly ?
but at the very back of your nose is a region called the olfactory epithelium , a little patch of skin that 's key to everything you smell . the olfactory epithelium has a layer of olfactory receptor cells , special neurons that sense smells , like the taste buds of your nose . when odor molecules hit the back of your nose , they get stuck in a layer of mucus covering the olfactory epithelium .	olfactory receptor cells are like ________ .	olfactory receptor cells are like ________ .
but at the very back of your nose is a region called the olfactory epithelium , a little patch of skin that 's key to everything you smell . the olfactory epithelium has a layer of olfactory receptor cells , special neurons that sense smells , like the taste buds of your nose . when odor molecules hit the back of your nose , they get stuck in a layer of mucus covering the olfactory epithelium .	which animal do you think has the biggest olfactory epithelium ? why ?	which animal do you think has the biggest olfactory epithelium ? why ?
compare that with the tortoise , which can age to more than 100 years . mice and rats reach the end of their lives after just four years , while for the bowhead whale , earth 's longest-lived mammal , death can come after 200 . like most living things , the vast majority of animals gradually degenerate after reaching sexual maturity in the process known as aging .	what is the longest-lived mammal ?	what is the longest-lived mammal ?
well , it turns out you can , sort of . what thermal energy does to the eggs ' molecules , mechanical energy can undo . eggs are mostly made of water and proteins .	what type of energy is being used to refold the proteins ?	what type of energy is being used to refold the proteins ?
indium is a very soft metal . i haven ’ t got a sample here .	indium is a ...	indium is a ...
indium is a very soft metal . i haven ’ t got a sample here .	as the professor explained , indium is a malleable metal and it is used as a solder . what is its melting point ?	as the professor explained , indium is a malleable metal and it is used as a solder . what is its melting point ?
indium is a very soft metal . i haven ’ t got a sample here .	indium is named after ...	indium is named after ...
indium is a very soft metal . i haven ’ t got a sample here .	indium-113 and indium-115 are the 2 natural isotopes of this metal . what other radioactive isotope is used in medicine as a radiotracer to follow the movement of labeled proteins and white blood cells in the body ?	indium-113 and indium-115 are the 2 natural isotopes of this metal . what other radioactive isotope is used in medicine as a radiotracer to follow the movement of labeled proteins and white blood cells in the body ?
but cosmic rays may provide even more fascinating information about the fabric of the universe itself . an experiment called the alpha magnetic spectrometer , a.m.s. , has recently been installed on board the international space station , containing several detectors that can separately measure a cosmic ray particle 's velocity , trajectory , radiation , mass and energy , as well as whether the particle is matter or antimatter . while the two are normally indistinguishable , their opposite charges enable them to be detected with the help of a magnet .	which of these phrase about the a.m.s . experiment is false ?	which of these phrase about the a.m.s . experiment is false ?
if insulin sensitivity goes down , that 's known as insulin resistance . the pancreas still sends out insulin , but cells , especially muscle cells , are less and less responsive to it , so blood sugar fails to decrease , and blood insulin continues to rise . chronically consuming a lot of carbohydrates may lead to insulin resistance , and many scientists believe that insulin resistance leads to a serious condition called metabolic syndrome .	which hormone is largely responsible for facilitating the movement of glucose out of the blood and into the body 's cells ?	which hormone is largely responsible for facilitating the movement of glucose out of the blood and into the body 's cells ?
originally , aspirin was just bayer 's brand name : a for acetyl , and spir for meadowsweet , whose botanical name is spiraea ulmaria . soon , aspirin became synonymous with acetylsalicylic acid . as its influence grew , aspirin was found to ease not just pain , but also many inflammation-related problems , like rheumatoid arthritis , pericarditis , which enflames the fluid-filled sack around the heart , and kawasaki disease , where blood vessels become inflamed .	which of the following chemicals does aspirin block in the body ?	which of the following chemicals does aspirin block in the body ?
originally , aspirin was just bayer 's brand name : a for acetyl , and spir for meadowsweet , whose botanical name is spiraea ulmaria . soon , aspirin became synonymous with acetylsalicylic acid . as its influence grew , aspirin was found to ease not just pain , but also many inflammation-related problems , like rheumatoid arthritis , pericarditis , which enflames the fluid-filled sack around the heart , and kawasaki disease , where blood vessels become inflamed .	which of the following is not likely to be an adverse event resulting from aspirin use ?	which of the following is not likely to be an adverse event resulting from aspirin use ?
for most of us , what we smell is largely involuntary , whether it 's garbage behind a restaurant , the shampoo of the woman leaving an elevator as you enter , or a bakery 's fresh-made bread . with a few million olfactory receptors in our noses , we clearly do n't lack the ability to smell well . we just might not always pay close enough attention .	from the context of the lesson , define what is meant by “ olfactory ” receptors .	from the context of the lesson , define what is meant by “ olfactory ” receptors .
for most of us , what we smell is largely involuntary , whether it 's garbage behind a restaurant , the shampoo of the woman leaving an elevator as you enter , or a bakery 's fresh-made bread . with a few million olfactory receptors in our noses , we clearly do n't lack the ability to smell well . we just might not always pay close enough attention .	olfactory receptors :	olfactory receptors :
nobody trains a dog to salivate over some steak . however , when we pair an unconditioned stimulus like food with something that was previously neutral , like the sound of a bell , that neutral stimulus becomes a conditioned stimulus . and so classical conditioning was discovered .	what is stimulus generalization ?	what is stimulus generalization ?
and it gets worse . there are maybe 100 billion galaxies detectable by our telescopes , so if each star was the size of a single grain of sand , just the milky way has enough stars to fill a 30 foot by 30 foot stretch of beach three feet deep with sand . and the entire earth does n't have enough beaches to represent the stars in the overall universe .	if a star was the size of a single grain of sand , the number of stars in the milky way would	if a star was the size of a single grain of sand , the number of stars in the milky way would
the word muslim means one who surrenders , meaning a person who submits to the will of god . a muslim 's five most important duties are called the five pillars : shahada , muslims declare publicly , there is no other god but allah , and muhammad is his final prophet ; salat , they pray five times a day facing mecca ; zakat , every muslim is required to give 2 or 3 % of their net worth to the poor ; sawm , they fast during daylight hours for the lunar month of ramadan to strengthen their willpower and their reliance on god ; and hajj , once in a lifetime , every muslim who is able must make a pilgrimage to the holy city of mecca , rehearsing for the time when they will stand before god to be judged worthy or unworthy of eternal life with him . the words of god , revealed to the prophet over 23 years , are collected in the quran , which literally translates into `` the recitation . ''	the five pillars ( fasting , declaration of belief , pilgrimage , alms , and daily prayer ) are the principle religious duties in ________ .	the five pillars ( fasting , declaration of belief , pilgrimage , alms , and daily prayer ) are the principle religious duties in ________ .
because we asked this question , `` why tuesday ? '' there is now this bill , the weekend voting act in the congress of the united states of america . it would move election day from tuesday to the weekend , so that -- duh -- more people can vote . ( applause ) it has only taken 167 years , but finally , we are on the verge of changing american history .	read more about other electoral systems . how does america ’ s election system compare and contrast to other systems ?	read more about other electoral systems . how does america ’ s election system compare and contrast to other systems ?
and yet , one form of learning is muscle memory . so how many of you play an instrument ? ok , so when you start off , for example , if you think about the violin , you start off and your instructor might actually come and move your hand a little bit or maybe move your bow a little bit up .	what kind of learning helps us learn to play a musical instrument ?	what kind of learning helps us learn to play a musical instrument ?
in fact , the ratio between the two , the circumference divided by the diameter , will always be the same number , no matter how big or small the circle gets . historians are n't sure when or how this number was first discovered , but it 's been known in some form for almost 4,000 years . estimates of it appear in the works of ancient greek , babylonian , chinese , and indian mathematicians .	it has been known for 4,000 years that what ratio is always the same ?	it has been known for 4,000 years that what ratio is always the same ?
and what it does is rather special - it gives mass to elementary particles . '' `` what 's an elementary particle ? '' `` an elementary particle is what we call particles that have no structure , they ca n't be divided , they 're the basic building blocks of the universe . ''	which of the following is an elementary particle ?	which of the following is an elementary particle ?
to understand what 's happening with greece and the eurozone , think about a dinner party . if you 're cooking just for yourself and your spouse , it 's easy : you make something you both like .	the narrator compares the eu to having guests over for dinner . according to that comparison , greece is :	the narrator compares the eu to having guests over for dinner . according to that comparison , greece is :
now , those examples are all things here on earth , things you experience in your everyday life , but here 's something even more amazing . our universe gives off the full spectrum of light , too . when you think of the night sky , you probably think of being able to see the stars shining with your own eyes , but that 's just visible light , which you now know is only a tiny part of the full spectrum .	the universe displays ________ .	the universe displays ________ .
wow ... no i do n't think zinc is in the least bit boring . i do n't think that most elements are interesting , but zinc is interesting because it 's in the same group as cadmium and mercury and cadmium and mercury are both pretty poisonous . but zinc is essential to life .	the professor noted a big difference between zinc and the other two metals of this group , cadmium and mercury ... what is it ?	the professor noted a big difference between zinc and the other two metals of this group , cadmium and mercury ... what is it ?
but himalayans who have lived on these mountains for thousands of years permanently evolved mechanisms to circumvent this process and maintain normal blood flow . cases like that prove that humans can develop permanent lifesaving traits . but natural adaptation for entire human populations could take tens of thousands of years .	evolution is a long and arduous process that has created humans with many different traits . can you think of some genetic mutations that have manifested as diseases and others as beneficial traits ?	evolution is a long and arduous process that has created humans with many different traits . can you think of some genetic mutations that have manifested as diseases and others as beneficial traits ?
i had ridden a normal bike since i was six , but in this moment i could n't do it any more . i had set out to prove that i could free my brain from a cognitive bias , but at this point i 'm pretty sure that all i 've proved is that i can only re-designate that bias . so what you 're not seeing is there 's a group of people here , looking at me .	destin says that he set out to prove that he could free his brain from cognitive bias , but that instead he merely re-designated the bias . using the example of the backwards bicycle , explain what he means by this .	destin says that he set out to prove that he could free his brain from cognitive bias , but that instead he merely re-designated the bias . using the example of the backwards bicycle , explain what he means by this .
it is incredible how little we know . thomas edison once said , `` we do n't know one percent of one millionth about anything . '' and i 've come to the conclusion -- because you ask this other question : `` what 's another thing we ca n't see ? ''	thomas edison said , `` we do n't know one percent of one millionth about anything . '' why do you think he said this ? do you think he was talking about individuals or the entire human race ? should we strive to know more ? why ?	thomas edison said , `` we do n't know one percent of one millionth about anything . '' why do you think he said this ? do you think he was talking about individuals or the entire human race ? should we strive to know more ? why ?
it is incredible how little we know . thomas edison once said , `` we do n't know one percent of one millionth about anything . '' and i 've come to the conclusion -- because you ask this other question : `` what 's another thing we ca n't see ? ''	which is one of the four fundamental forces ?	which is one of the four fundamental forces ?
the moon dips into the core of earth 's shadow , but not all the way , so only a fraction of moon is darkened . a total eclipse , when the entire moon is shadowed , is best of all . the face of the moon turns sunset-red for up to an hour or more as the eclipse slowly unfolds .	why does the moon turn red during a total lunar eclipse ?	why does the moon turn red during a total lunar eclipse ?
worms convert organic waste and other compostable products into natural fertilizers . up to 75 % of what we put in the waste stream can become food and bedding material for vermicomposting . you can create a worm bin in your own home to see the composting process in action . first off , you need worms and not your typical earthworms . you need redworms , eisenia foetida , the species responsible for most vermicomposting in north america .	you should use earthworms collected from your yard to start vermicomposting efforts at your own home .	you should use earthworms collected from your yard to start vermicomposting efforts at your own home .
here , the word gothic was repurposed again to describe a literary genre that emerged as a darker strain of romanticism . the term was first applied by horace walpole to his own 1764 novel , `` the castle of otranto '' as a reference to the plot and general atmosphere . many of the novel 's elements became genre staples inspiring classics and the countless movies they spawned .	the term “ gothic ” was first used as a derogatory term during the :	the term “ gothic ” was first used as a derogatory term during the :
here , the word gothic was repurposed again to describe a literary genre that emerged as a darker strain of romanticism . the term was first applied by horace walpole to his own 1764 novel , `` the castle of otranto '' as a reference to the plot and general atmosphere . many of the novel 's elements became genre staples inspiring classics and the countless movies they spawned .	the first use of the term “ gothic ” in relation to literature was in reference to :	the first use of the term “ gothic ” in relation to literature was in reference to :
but none of those microbes had genes for spider silk or dopamine . there are a lot more genes on earth today than there were back then . it turns out that a lot of those extra genes were born from mistakes .	explain how mutations have created more/different genes on earth today than in the past . be sure to include all of the necessary steps !	explain how mutations have created more/different genes on earth today than in the past . be sure to include all of the necessary steps !
as you can tell , both solutions sacrificed rowling ’ s alliteration . the name “ hogwarts ” combines two english words , but because the name stayed the same in most languages , those connotations were lost for those readers . in an attempt to preserve rowling ’ s approach to the school ’ s name , the french translator used “ poudlard. ” `` pou du lard '' means lice of bacon or fat .	using any of the translation techniques mentioned in this video , imagine a new name for hogwarts ( in english or any other language ) .	using any of the translation techniques mentioned in this video , imagine a new name for hogwarts ( in english or any other language ) .
of the fats in your brain , the superstars are omegas 3 and 6 . these essential fatty acids , which have been linked to preventing degenerative brain conditions , must come from our diets . so eating omega-rich foods , like nuts , seeds , and fatty fish , is crucial to the creation and maintenance of cell membranes .	what is one thing that makes essential fatty acids so unique ?	what is one thing that makes essential fatty acids so unique ?
after many hours of hiking through the mountains of lesotho , surrounded by the tranquility and rugged terrain , you are likely to meet a herdboy who has slept the night in a vacant rondoval and bellows out greetings of `` lumela '' or `` khotso '' , which means `` peace be with you . '' if you took a moment to research further the meanings behind `` shalom , '' or the korean greeting , you would find that they too have deeply-seated connections to peace . however , they have become quick comments made to welcome , greet , and say hello , and in this overuse , have likely lost the focus that was originally intended when put into practice hundreds or thousands of years ago .	what are the everyday greetings you use ? do you know their origins ? do they have deep seated connections to peace ? if not , would you consider using a greeting that wished peace for the people to which you are speaking ?	what are the everyday greetings you use ? do you know their origins ? do they have deep seated connections to peace ? if not , would you consider using a greeting that wished peace for the people to which you are speaking ?
after many hours of hiking through the mountains of lesotho , surrounded by the tranquility and rugged terrain , you are likely to meet a herdboy who has slept the night in a vacant rondoval and bellows out greetings of `` lumela '' or `` khotso '' , which means `` peace be with you . '' if you took a moment to research further the meanings behind `` shalom , '' or the korean greeting , you would find that they too have deeply-seated connections to peace . however , they have become quick comments made to welcome , greet , and say hello , and in this overuse , have likely lost the focus that was originally intended when put into practice hundreds or thousands of years ago .	if you took a moment to research further the meanings behind shalom or the korean greeting , you would find that they too have deeply seated connections to peace . what does jenkins suggest has happened because of their use as quick phrases meant to welcome , greet , and say hello ?	if you took a moment to research further the meanings behind shalom or the korean greeting , you would find that they too have deeply seated connections to peace . what does jenkins suggest has happened because of their use as quick phrases meant to welcome , greet , and say hello ?
glucose is the best source of energy for nearly all organisms on earth . it can be metabolized by all organs in the body . fructose , on the other hand , is metabolized primarily in the liver , and when your liver gets overloaded with sweet , sweet fructose , the excess is metabolized to fat . fresh fruits actually contain fructose , but it 's naturally occurring and does n't cause an overload because the fiber in fruit slows its absorption .	fructose is metabolized ( burned for energy ) in the :	fructose is metabolized ( burned for energy ) in the :
the food we eat also influences which microbes live in our gut . for example , food made of complex molecules , like an apple , requires a lot of different microbial workers to break it down . but , if a food is made of simple molecules , like a lollipop , some of these workers are put out of a job . those workers leave the city , never to return .	what happens when a person eats only foods made of simple molecules ?	what happens when a person eats only foods made of simple molecules ?
we know that the summer/winter cycle normally averages around 5 or 6 years apiece , and as the story begins the most recent summer has stretched to nearly ten years . on earth , seasons are caused by our axial tilt leaning one side of earth toward or away from the sun during our annual trip around it , but george 's world is n't so predictable . the maesters of the citadel are the geeks of westeros , who are supposed to calculate when the next polar doom will arrive .	on earth , what causes our seasons to change ?	on earth , what causes our seasons to change ?
it 's only been the last few hundreds years or so that western civilization has been putting art in museums , at least museums resembling the public institutions we know today . before this , for most , art served other purposes .	what is a curator ?	what is a curator ?
this process starts in your digestive system . say you swallow an ibuprofen tablet for a sore ankle . within minutes , the tablet starts disintegrating in the acidic fluids of your stomach . the dissolved ibuprofen travels into the small intestine and then across the intestinal wall into a network of blood vessels .	______ minutes after you have swallowed a tablet , some of the drug/medicine has already reached your bloodstream .	______ minutes after you have swallowed a tablet , some of the drug/medicine has already reached your bloodstream .
ok. i ’ m going to take it out of the bottle… of the… i ’ m going to have to wash my hands after this . so silicon is a very common element , it ’ s particularly found in sand which is the oxide of silica ; that ’ s the compound of oxygen and silicon . it is also found in a variety of minerals which contain silicon , oxygen and another metal which are known as silicates .	what is the name of inert silicon polymers that can be found in implants ?	what is the name of inert silicon polymers that can be found in implants ?
[ the yup'ik peoples have lived off king salmon for centuries . ] [ since 1998 the king salmon have been disappearing . ] [ ♪ music ♪ ] [ male speaker ] i 've been fishing all my life .	since what year did the king salmon begin to disappear ?	since what year did the king salmon begin to disappear ?
[ the yup'ik peoples have lived off king salmon for centuries . ] [ since 1998 the king salmon have been disappearing . ] [ ♪ music ♪ ] [ male speaker ] i 've been fishing all my life .	is there a tradition in your family that is lost or dying ? what are the reasons for its disappearing , and what , if anything , could you do to bring it back ?	is there a tradition in your family that is lost or dying ? what are the reasons for its disappearing , and what , if anything , could you do to bring it back ?
navigators were keen observers of the natural world . they were abundantly familiar with trade wind-generated ocean swells , which typically flow northeast or southeast . by day , navigators could identify direction by the rocking motion of their canoes caused by these swells . but sunrise and sunset were even more useful .	how did the navigator use ocean swells to determine direction ?	how did the navigator use ocean swells to determine direction ?
a fetus with such unrestricted access can manufacture hormones to increase the mother 's blood sugar , dilate her arteries , and inflate her blood pressure . most mammal mothers can expel or reabsorb embryos if required , but in humans , once the fetus is connected to the blood supply , severing that connection can result in hemorrhage . if the fetus develops poorly or dies , the mother 's health is endangered .	for human mothers , severing the connection between a fetus and its blood supply can cause issues . explain .	for human mothers , severing the connection between a fetus and its blood supply can cause issues . explain .
most of his paintings are immediately recognizable . they feature tangled messes of lines of paint bouncing around in every direction on the canvas . and sure , these fields of chaos are big and impressive , but what 's so great about them ?	`` tangled messes of lines of paint bouncing around in every direction on the canvas '' best describes the paintings of :	`` tangled messes of lines of paint bouncing around in every direction on the canvas '' best describes the paintings of :
but that 's simplistic . plenty of lies are funny . comedic fiction can be funny . made-up nonsense jibberish is frequently hilarious .	why is it funny when someone slips on a banana peel ?	why is it funny when someone slips on a banana peel ?
and it turns out , history created a eulerian path of its own . during world war ii , the soviet air force destroyed two of the city 's bridges , making a eulerian path easily possible . though , to be fair , that probably was n't their intention .	how many bridges of königsberg remained immediately after world war ii ?	how many bridges of königsberg remained immediately after world war ii ?
and if he still understood it , why does it even matter ? from the point of view of linguistics , grammar is a set of patterns for how words are put together to form phrases or clauses , whether spoken or in writing . different languages have different patterns .	grammar is a set of recurrent word patterns that helps speakers and writers to both understand and express concepts . what are some of the ways in which grammar tells us something about how we think ?	grammar is a set of recurrent word patterns that helps speakers and writers to both understand and express concepts . what are some of the ways in which grammar tells us something about how we think ?
by studying the comparison between insect and human brains , scientists can thus understand which of our brain functions are unique , and which are general solutions to evolutionary problems . but this is not the only reason scientists are fascinated by insect brains . their small size and simplicity makes it easier to understand exactly how neurons work together in the brain . this is also valuable for engineers , who study the insect brain to help design control systems for everything from self-flying airplanes to tiny search-and-rescue roach bots .	many engineers are very interested in insect brains on account of their small size and relative simplicity . this makes them great templates for robotics , where the control elements also need to be small and efficient . can you give an example of a complex task that an insect can perform that might be of interest to robotics engineers ?	many engineers are very interested in insect brains on account of their small size and relative simplicity . this makes them great templates for robotics , where the control elements also need to be small and efficient . can you give an example of a complex task that an insect can perform that might be of interest to robotics engineers ?
in 1845 , ireland 's vast potato fields were struck by an invasive fungal disease that rapidly infested this staple crop . the effect was devastating .	during 1845 , ireland experienced a catastrophic loss of their main food source , potatoes . what was the cause of this disaster ?	during 1845 , ireland experienced a catastrophic loss of their main food source , potatoes . what was the cause of this disaster ?
the plastic in their bodies was formed by chemically bonding oil and gas molecules together to make monomers . in turn , these monomers were bonded into long polymer chains to make plastic in the form of millions of pellets . those were melted at manufacturing plants and reformed in molds to create the resilient material that makes up the triplets ' bodies .	the chains that ultimately form plastic are known as :	the chains that ultimately form plastic are known as :
in fact , it ’ s one of the first tendons that surgeons will take out so they can use it in reconstructive and cosmetic surgeries . you can find the palmaris longus across mammal species , but it ’ s most developed among those that use their forelimbs to move around . in primates , that means the muscle is longer in lemurs and monkeys and shorter in chimps , gorillas , and other apes that don ’ t do a lot of scrambling through trees .	according to this video , how is the palmaris longus currently most useful ?	according to this video , how is the palmaris longus currently most useful ?
in some environments , taking away just one important component can undermine the entire system . take coral reefs , for instance . many organisms in a reef are dependent on the coral .	coral reefs are essential for the survival of other organisms . they provide :	coral reefs are essential for the survival of other organisms . they provide :
demographic realities , as well as the link between marriage and wealth , meant that even though rulers and elites in ancient mesopotamia , egypt and israel had multiple concubines or wives , most commoners could only afford one or two tending towards monogamy in practice . in other places , the tables were turned , and a woman could have multiple husbands as in the himalayan mountains where all brothers in a family marrying the same woman kept the small amount of fertile land from being constantly divided into new households . marriages could vary not only in the number of people they involved but the types of people as well .	why was polyandry practiced in the himalayan mountains ?	why was polyandry practiced in the himalayan mountains ?
and so these are just some of the tools that we use in order to make robots smarter . so , i want to leave you with one thought . so , i 'm all for robots and smart robots .	one thing that makes howard 's job as a roboticist so appealing is that she deals only in the discipline of electrical engineering without ever having to give much thought to other interdisciplinary fields .	one thing that makes howard 's job as a roboticist so appealing is that she deals only in the discipline of electrical engineering without ever having to give much thought to other interdisciplinary fields .
i shall pick it up carefully . tellurium . you ’ ve never had anything to do with this ?	tellurium was named after ...	tellurium was named after ...
i shall pick it up carefully . tellurium . you ’ ve never had anything to do with this ?	similar to its predecessor on the periodic table , selenium , what would be the problem if we were to touch a sample of tellurium with our hands ?	similar to its predecessor on the periodic table , selenium , what would be the problem if we were to touch a sample of tellurium with our hands ?
i shall pick it up carefully . tellurium . you ’ ve never had anything to do with this ?	as the professor showed us , how was tellurium used in laser optics ?	as the professor showed us , how was tellurium used in laser optics ?
i shall pick it up carefully . tellurium . you ’ ve never had anything to do with this ?	what tellurium compound can you find in the rewritable data layer of cds , dvds , and blu-ray discs ?	what tellurium compound can you find in the rewritable data layer of cds , dvds , and blu-ray discs ?
so , how can we deal with cyberwarfare if we ca n't even agree on what it means ? one way forward is to envision situations where new international laws may be needed . imagine a new kind of assassin , one that could perpetrate a crime without firing a single shot or even being in the same country .	should the law evolve to create laws that govern cyberwarfare ? if so , what changes and at what level ( state , national , international , etc . ) should be made to the law to accommodate the changing technology and new frontier in warfare ?	should the law evolve to create laws that govern cyberwarfare ? if so , what changes and at what level ( state , national , international , etc . ) should be made to the law to accommodate the changing technology and new frontier in warfare ?
let 's fast forward a bit . about 100 million years later , pangea breaks apart , opening the southern atlantic ocean between the new north american plate and the african plate . we forge ahead , and now the eastward-moving farallon plate converges with the present-day west coast .	the theory of plate tectonics is a relatively new idea , developed in the mid-20th century following the discovery of tectonic features on seafloors . can you imagine our explanation of faults , earthquakes , mountains , and rifting before the plate tectonic revolution ?	the theory of plate tectonics is a relatively new idea , developed in the mid-20th century following the discovery of tectonic features on seafloors . can you imagine our explanation of faults , earthquakes , mountains , and rifting before the plate tectonic revolution ?
we know the more common remedies for car queasiness -- looking at the horizon , over-the-counter pills , chewing gum , but none are totally reliable nor can they handle intense motion sickness and sometimes the stakes are far higher than just not being bored during a long car ride . at nasa , where astronauts are hurled into space at 17,000 miles per hour , motion sickness is a serious problem . in addition to researching the latest space-age technologies , nasa also spends a lot of time figuring out how to keep astronauts from vomiting up their space rations .	why would motion sickness present such a particular problem for nasa ? brainstorm some solutions for astronauts for either preventing motion sickness or cleaning it up when it happens .	why would motion sickness present such a particular problem for nasa ? brainstorm some solutions for astronauts for either preventing motion sickness or cleaning it up when it happens .
and lest you think this is a bit far-fetched , confusing headlines like this appear all the time . modifiers are words , phrases , and clauses that add information about other parts of a sentence , which is usually helpful . but when modifiers are n't linked clearly enough to the words they 're actually referring to , they can create unintentional ambiguity .	under what circumstances do modifiers create a problem in a sentence ?	under what circumstances do modifiers create a problem in a sentence ?
and lest you think this is a bit far-fetched , confusing headlines like this appear all the time . modifiers are words , phrases , and clauses that add information about other parts of a sentence , which is usually helpful . but when modifiers are n't linked clearly enough to the words they 're actually referring to , they can create unintentional ambiguity .	explain the different possible methods you can use to fix misplaced modifiers in a sentence .	explain the different possible methods you can use to fix misplaced modifiers in a sentence .
olive oil is 100 % fat . pancake mix is only 11 % fat . but olive oil is mostly unsaturated fat , and it has no trans fat at all . on the other hand , more than half the fat in pancake mix is either saturated or trans fat . and , so , even though olive oil has 10 times as much fat as pancake mix , it 's healthy for you , whereas pancake mix is not .	trans fats are a type of what kind of fat ?	trans fats are a type of what kind of fat ?
so let 's return to our question . would the real sherlock holmes please stand up ? the truth is that this world of adaptation has made him into a palimpsest .	during the second world war , sherlock holmes was used as part of propaganda films in which he fought for the allies against the nazis . what characteristics does sherlock holmes display that would make him an appealing figure for this political agenda ?	during the second world war , sherlock holmes was used as part of propaganda films in which he fought for the allies against the nazis . what characteristics does sherlock holmes display that would make him an appealing figure for this political agenda ?
similarly , the electric shock from a defibrillator does n't jump-start an inanimate heart , but resynchronizes the muscle cells in an abnormally beating heart so they regain their normal rhythm . this can prevent a person from dying , but it wo n't raise a dead body , or a monster sewn together from dead bodies . so it would seem that all our various medical miracles can delay or prevent death but not reverse it .	dead bodies are cold . would heating them up restore them to life ?	dead bodies are cold . would heating them up restore them to life ?
similarly , the electric shock from a defibrillator does n't jump-start an inanimate heart , but resynchronizes the muscle cells in an abnormally beating heart so they regain their normal rhythm . this can prevent a person from dying , but it wo n't raise a dead body , or a monster sewn together from dead bodies . so it would seem that all our various medical miracles can delay or prevent death but not reverse it .	suppose you had a dead person ’ s dna and a living fertilized egg . would it be possible to return that person to life through cloning ?	suppose you had a dead person ’ s dna and a living fertilized egg . would it be possible to return that person to life through cloning ?
the night manager 's strategies are only possible because while the infinite hotel is certainly a logistical nightmare , it only deals with the lowest level of infinity , mainly , the countable infinity of the natural numbers , 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , and so on . georg cantor called this level of infinity aleph-zero . we use natural numbers for the room numbers as well as the seat numbers on the buses . if we were dealing with higher orders of infinity , such as that of the real numbers , these structured strategies would no longer be possible as we have no way to systematically include every number .	the set of real numbers is of a higher order of infinity ( has more members ) than the natural numbers .	the set of real numbers is of a higher order of infinity ( has more members ) than the natural numbers .
in fact , more than two-thirds of cult members are recruited by a friend , family member , or co-worker whose invitations are harder to refuse . once in the cult , members are subjected to multiple forms of indoctrination . some play on our natural inclination to mimic social behaviors or follow orders .	cult indoctrination techniques include the use of :	cult indoctrination techniques include the use of :
to understand how traits pass from one living being to its descendants , we need to go back in time to the 19th century and a man named gregor mendel . mendel was an austrian monk and biologist who loved to work with plants . by breeding the pea plants he was growing in the monastery 's garden , he discovered the principles that rule heredity . in one of most classic examples , mendel combined a purebred yellow-seeded plant with a purebred green-seeded plant , and he got only yellow seeds .	what did gregor mendel use to discover the principles that rule heredity ?	what did gregor mendel use to discover the principles that rule heredity ?
but because people with type ab blood produce both a and b antigens , they do n't make antibodies against them , so they will recognize either as safe , making them universal recipients . on the other hand , people with blood type o do not produce either antigen , which makes them universal donors , but will cause their immune system to make antibodies that reject any other blood type . unfortunately , matching donors and recipients is a bit more complicated due to additional antigen systems , particular the rh factor , named after the rhesus monkeys in which it was first isolated .	why are people with type o blood considered universal donors ?	why are people with type o blood considered universal donors ?
but because people with type ab blood produce both a and b antigens , they do n't make antibodies against them , so they will recognize either as safe , making them universal recipients . on the other hand , people with blood type o do not produce either antigen , which makes them universal donors , but will cause their immune system to make antibodies that reject any other blood type . unfortunately , matching donors and recipients is a bit more complicated due to additional antigen systems , particular the rh factor , named after the rhesus monkeys in which it was first isolated .	type o blood is the universal donor and is in the greatest demand . hospitals rely on the goodwill of type o donors to supply this demand . how could type a , b or ab blood be biochemically modified to not elicit an immune response ?	type o blood is the universal donor and is in the greatest demand . hospitals rely on the goodwill of type o donors to supply this demand . how could type a , b or ab blood be biochemically modified to not elicit an immune response ?
all drugs will kill you , so just say , `` no ! '' just say , `` no ! '' to pot .	bohannon suggests that practicing a conversation with yourself is the best way to know what to say to kids . why does he suggest this method , and do you think it 's good advice ?	bohannon suggests that practicing a conversation with yourself is the best way to know what to say to kids . why does he suggest this method , and do you think it 's good advice ?
and to stay in peak physical condition , they learned a variety of sports , such as discus , javelin , and horseback riding . in sparta , it was believed that only strong and capable women could bear children that would one day become strong and capable warriors . to all spartans , men and women , perhaps the most important lesson from spartan school was allegiance to sparta . to die for their city-state was seen as the completion of one 's duty to sparta .	spartan boys were built to become the perfect warriors . what methods were used at “ spartan school ” to build them up both body and mind ? why is this mix important in building better warriors ?	spartan boys were built to become the perfect warriors . what methods were used at “ spartan school ” to build them up both body and mind ? why is this mix important in building better warriors ?
in this way , the night manager can accommodate every passenger on every bus . although , there will be many rooms that go unfilled , like room 6 , since 6 is not a power of any prime number . luckily , his bosses were n't very good in math , so his job is safe .	besides room # 6 , what are some other rooms that will go unfilled when powers of the prime numbers are used to assign room numbers ?	besides room # 6 , what are some other rooms that will go unfilled when powers of the prime numbers are used to assign room numbers ?
in this way , the night manager can accommodate every passenger on every bus . although , there will be many rooms that go unfilled , like room 6 , since 6 is not a power of any prime number . luckily , his bosses were n't very good in math , so his job is safe .	how many rooms will go unfilled when the manager uses the powers of the prime numbers , and why ?	how many rooms will go unfilled when the manager uses the powers of the prime numbers , and why ?
but , in the 18th and 19th century , female eyes gazed out windows at a world they were unlikely to ever explore . life for women in the time of queen victoria was largely relegated to house chores and gossip . and , although they devoured books on exotic travel , most would never would leave the places in which they were born .	women ’ s fashion of the time was quite restrictive . what fashionable item helped mary kingsley when she fell into a pit of thorns ?	women ’ s fashion of the time was quite restrictive . what fashionable item helped mary kingsley when she fell into a pit of thorns ?
but , in the 18th and 19th century , female eyes gazed out windows at a world they were unlikely to ever explore . life for women in the time of queen victoria was largely relegated to house chores and gossip . and , although they devoured books on exotic travel , most would never would leave the places in which they were born .	independence takes a lot of courage . can you think of a time when you were afraid to say or do something that was different than the group , and a time when you were brave enough to ‘ march to your own drummer ? ’ how did each situation feel at the time ? how do you feel looking back on them ?	independence takes a lot of courage . can you think of a time when you were afraid to say or do something that was different than the group , and a time when you were brave enough to ‘ march to your own drummer ? ’ how did each situation feel at the time ? how do you feel looking back on them ?
but what if we could turn the tables on radiation ? human skin produces a pigment called melanin that protects us from the filtered radiation on earth . melanin exists in many forms across species , and some melanin-expressing fungi use the pigment to convert radiation into chemical energy .	humans produce a skin pigment know as :	humans produce a skin pigment know as :
places like aravind eye hospital in india have pioneered high-volume , low-cost cataract surgery for as little as six dollars . why then , with all these advances , are there still so many blind people in the world ? the main issue is access to health care , with poor infrastructure and a shortage of doctors being a major barrier in many regions .	how many people in the world are estimated to be blind from cataracts ?	how many people in the world are estimated to be blind from cataracts ?
places like aravind eye hospital in india have pioneered high-volume , low-cost cataract surgery for as little as six dollars . why then , with all these advances , are there still so many blind people in the world ? the main issue is access to health care , with poor infrastructure and a shortage of doctors being a major barrier in many regions .	what proportion of people worldwide is blind from causes termed `` avoidable ''	what proportion of people worldwide is blind from causes termed `` avoidable ''
what political theorist hannah arendt , writing years after kafka 's death , would call `` tyranny without a tyrant . '' yet accompanying the bleakness of kafka 's stories , there 's a great deal of humor rooted in the nonsensical logic of the situations described . so on the one hand , it 's easy to recognize the kafkaesque in today 's world .	do you find kafka ’ s stories funny ? why or why not ? what do you feel the humor , or lack thereof , achieves ? does the humor , or lack thereof , detract from the stories ?	do you find kafka ’ s stories funny ? why or why not ? what do you feel the humor , or lack thereof , achieves ? does the humor , or lack thereof , detract from the stories ?
if these external defenses are breached , the plant immune system springs into action . plants do n't have a separate immune system like animals . instead , every cell has the ability to detect and defend against invaders .	the immune systems of plants rely on :	the immune systems of plants rely on :
and it 's not just fish . emergence is a basic property of many complex systems of interacting elements . for example , the specific way in which millions of grains of sand collide and tumble over each other almost always produces the same basic pattern of ripples . and when moisture freezes in the atmosphere , the specific binding properties of water molecules reliably produce radiating lattices that form into beautiful snowflakes .	one of the simplest cases of emergence is the formation of sand dunes . what are the individual parts of this system ? what types of interactions do these parts have ? what other factors contribute to how sand dunes will form ?	one of the simplest cases of emergence is the formation of sand dunes . what are the individual parts of this system ? what types of interactions do these parts have ? what other factors contribute to how sand dunes will form ?
so imagine a ball the size of a football stadium , and right smack dab in the center of the atom , you would find the nucleus , and you could see it ! and it would be the size of a small marble . and there 's more , if i have n't blown your mind by now .	if you had an atom that was blown up to the size of a blueberry , the nucleus would be the size of ... .	if you had an atom that was blown up to the size of a blueberry , the nucleus would be the size of ... .
and now to one of the most powerful features of the ted-ed website : flipping a lesson . flipping a featured lesson allows you to edit each of the lesson 's sections . you can edit the title as it relates to your class .	what does flipping a lesson mean ?	what does flipping a lesson mean ?
this leads to unpleasant symptoms in some people with bowel problems . another possible explanation behind gluten sensitivity is the nocebo effect . this occurs when a person believes something will cause problems , and because of that belief , it does .	how may this gluten-free food craze have led to the `` nocebo '' effect ? imagine and describe a scenario in which the `` nocebo '' effect may occur .	how may this gluten-free food craze have led to the `` nocebo '' effect ? imagine and describe a scenario in which the `` nocebo '' effect may occur .
in 1907 , george freeth , the so-called hawaiian wonder , traveled to the west coast and gave surfing demonstrations in southern california . then in 1914 , olympic swimmer duke kahanamoku made his way to australia and new zealand , gliding across the southern pacific waves and attracting rapt audiences wherever he went . shortly before freeth went to california , a south carolinian named alexander hume ford moved to hawaii .	duke kahanamoku helped to spread surf culture after making his way to _____________ in 1914 .	duke kahanamoku helped to spread surf culture after making his way to _____________ in 1914 .
that makes coal energy dense , meaning it can be burned 'round the clock . it 's also cheap , if you ignore the pollution costs , and should last us through the end of the 21st century . we 've already got all the infrastructure in place for harnessing its power , and globally , although countries are making a move towards energy from cleaner and more renewable sources , there 's no sign yet that coal use is slowing down .	why do you think it ’ s a problem to ignore the cost of pollution when we make assessments of how much coal costs us ?	why do you think it ’ s a problem to ignore the cost of pollution when we make assessments of how much coal costs us ?
the leading theory is that our skin has evolved to be acutely aware of touch so that we 're equipped to deal with risks from the outside world . think about it . our automatic scratching response would dislodge anything harmful that 's potentially lurking on our skin , like a harmful sting , a biting insect , or the tendrils of a poisonous plant .	why do you think there are so many things in the world that make us itch ?	why do you think there are so many things in the world that make us itch ?
but all they need , as it turns out , is a little boost . one day a sphere shows up in flatland to visit our square hero . here 's what it looks like when the sphere passes through flatland from the square 's perspective , and this blows his little square mind . then the sphere lifts the square into the third dimension , the height direction where no flatlander has gone before and shows him his world .	what does the sphere look like when he passes through flatland from the square ’ s point of view ?	what does the sphere look like when he passes through flatland from the square ’ s point of view ?
cognitive load theory says to think of the brain like a cpu ; when too much is going on the brain ca n't focus . so , to offload some of that stress , the brain might trigger our fidgeting ! lower stress is highly associated with better learning and memory performance , so fidgeting can help us learn !	how do you and your class relieve stress in the classroom ? what methods do you prefer ? movement ? meditation ? social activity ? please share .	how do you and your class relieve stress in the classroom ? what methods do you prefer ? movement ? meditation ? social activity ? please share .
but until a way can be found to expose it without damaging the treasures inside , the tomb remains sealed . emperor qin was not alone in wanting company for his final destination . ancient egyptian tombs contain clay models representing the ideal afterlife , the dead of japan 's kofun period were buried with sculptures of horses and houses , and the graves of the jaina island off the mexican coast are full of ceramic figurines .	what might the emperor have been considering in burying more than just soldiers in the tombs ?	what might the emperor have been considering in burying more than just soldiers in the tombs ?
almost a decade after taking the deep field image , scientists adjusted the optics on the hubble telescope and took another long exposure over a period of about four months . this time , they observed 10,000 galaxies . half of these galaxies have since been analyzed more clearly in what 's known as the extreme deep field image , or xdf .	it is thought that there are 200,000,000,000 galaxies in the universe today . all of them are made of the same elements , follow the same laws of physics , and are made up of the same structures as our galaxies , solar system , and you . can this knowledge change how we think of ourselves in relation to other things in the universe ?	it is thought that there are 200,000,000,000 galaxies in the universe today . all of them are made of the same elements , follow the same laws of physics , and are made up of the same structures as our galaxies , solar system , and you . can this knowledge change how we think of ourselves in relation to other things in the universe ?
that 's more than the entire length of manhattan . so what is an atom smasher ? it is a device that collides atomic nuclei together at extremely high energy .	what is the purpose of an atom smasher ?	what is the purpose of an atom smasher ?
with the recent arrival of virtual currencies , offshore banking , the darknet , and global markets , schemes have become much more complex . although modern money laundering methods vary greatly , most share three basic steps : placement , layering , and integration . placement is where illegally obtained money is converted into assets that seem legitimate .	money laundering is a :	money laundering is a :
with the recent arrival of virtual currencies , offshore banking , the darknet , and global markets , schemes have become much more complex . although modern money laundering methods vary greatly , most share three basic steps : placement , layering , and integration . placement is where illegally obtained money is converted into assets that seem legitimate .	with the advancement of technology , is it easier to detect money laundering ? please explain .	with the advancement of technology , is it easier to detect money laundering ? please explain .
with the recent arrival of virtual currencies , offshore banking , the darknet , and global markets , schemes have become much more complex . although modern money laundering methods vary greatly , most share three basic steps : placement , layering , and integration . placement is where illegally obtained money is converted into assets that seem legitimate .	criminals have exploited banks in their quest to hide illegal money . what can banks do to better protect themselves from the increasing rise of money laundering ?	criminals have exploited banks in their quest to hide illegal money . what can banks do to better protect themselves from the increasing rise of money laundering ?
ten years after the trojan war , we find our hero trapped on an island , still far from his native ithaca and the family he has n't seen for 20 years . because he 's angered the sea god poseidon by blinding his son , a cyclops , odysseus 's passage home has been fraught with mishap after mishap . with trouble brewing at home and gods discussing his fate , odysseus begins the account of those missing years to his hosts .	which god has hindered odysseus ’ journey home ?	which god has hindered odysseus ’ journey home ?
would you stop falling ? would the elevator hit your head ? well , what 's pulling the elevator down ? gravity .	given what you now know about elevator physics , what do you think would happen if you were on a scale in an elevator that was ascending rapidly ?	given what you now know about elevator physics , what do you think would happen if you were on a scale in an elevator that was ascending rapidly ?
we 're bombarded with so many decisions that it 's impossible to make a perfect choice every time . but there are many ways to improve our chances , and one particularly effective technique is critical thinking . this is a way of approaching a question that allows us to carefully deconstruct a situation , reveal its hidden issues , such as bias and manipulation , and make the best decision .	what is one advantage of critical thinking ?	what is one advantage of critical thinking ?
we 're bombarded with so many decisions that it 's impossible to make a perfect choice every time . but there are many ways to improve our chances , and one particularly effective technique is critical thinking . this is a way of approaching a question that allows us to carefully deconstruct a situation , reveal its hidden issues , such as bias and manipulation , and make the best decision .	how can critical thinking improve your chances of making better choices ?	how can critical thinking improve your chances of making better choices ?
why ? well , there are numerous possible answers , some of them quite dark . maybe a single , superintelligent civilization has indeed taken over the galaxy , and has imposed strict radio silence because it 's paranoid of any potential competitors .	anderson says that possible answers to fermi ’ s question include	anderson says that possible answers to fermi ’ s question include
if you begin writing a literary analysis with the introduction , you may be discouraged . here 's a tip for writing a great introduction : write it last , and write your thesis first . figure out what you want to analyze before you actually analyze it .	think about the story of goldilocks and the three bears ( http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/the_story_of_the_three_bears ) . write a simple thesis statement . what questions did you ask to come up with your thesis ?	think about the story of goldilocks and the three bears ( http : //en.wikipedia.org/wiki/the_story_of_the_three_bears ) . write a simple thesis statement . what questions did you ask to come up with your thesis ?
of course , laws are far from reality . despite the promise of the 15th amendment , intimidation kept african-americans from exercising their voting rights . states passed laws that limited the rights of african-americans to vote , including things like literacy tests , which were rigged so that not even literate african-americans were allowed to pass , and poll taxes . so , despite the 15th amendment , by 1892 , only about 6 % of black men in mississippi were registered to vote . by 1960 , it was only 1 % .	list a few reasons why african-americans did not vote in the late 1800s even after the 15th amendment was ratified .	list a few reasons why african-americans did not vote in the late 1800s even after the 15th amendment was ratified .
teacher > yes my girl , say it . student > someone who has the ball is going to be hiv positive . so what does that tell you about hiv ?	how can the positive attitudes associated with team sportsmanship be applied off the field ?	how can the positive attitudes associated with team sportsmanship be applied off the field ?
as their population dips , the reduced predation would allow the insect population to rise , counteracting the effects of our pesticides . note that each feedback is the product of the links in the loop . add one negative link and it will reverse the feedback force entirely , and one weak link will reduce the effect of the entire feedback considerably . lose a link , and the whole loop is broken .	if you have a feedback loop with three strong negative links , and one of those links turns into a very weak positive link , what will the resulting feedback be ?	if you have a feedback loop with three strong negative links , and one of those links turns into a very weak positive link , what will the resulting feedback be ?
professor fukanō , the famous eccentric scientist and adventurer , has embarked on a new challenge : flying around the world nonstop in a plane of his own design . able to travel consistently at the incredible speed of one degree longitude around the equator per minute , the plane would take six hours to circle the world . there 's just one problem : the plane can only hold 180 kiloliters of fuel , only enough for exactly half the journey .	how many degrees of longitude is the entire earth divided into ?	how many degrees of longitude is the entire earth divided into ?
professor fukanō , the famous eccentric scientist and adventurer , has embarked on a new challenge : flying around the world nonstop in a plane of his own design . able to travel consistently at the incredible speed of one degree longitude around the equator per minute , the plane would take six hours to circle the world . there 's just one problem : the plane can only hold 180 kiloliters of fuel , only enough for exactly half the journey .	what is the key to completing the mission of flying around the world in one airplane ?	what is the key to completing the mission of flying around the world in one airplane ?
professor fukanō , the famous eccentric scientist and adventurer , has embarked on a new challenge : flying around the world nonstop in a plane of his own design . able to travel consistently at the incredible speed of one degree longitude around the equator per minute , the plane would take six hours to circle the world . there 's just one problem : the plane can only hold 180 kiloliters of fuel , only enough for exactly half the journey .	the equator :	the equator :
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar miss gayle 's 5 steps to slam poetry , a lesson of transformation . step 1 : write it all down . `` take one memory , explore it like a new land , '' the visiting poet tells the class .	if you had to write a poem , what would it be about ?	if you had to write a poem , what would it be about ?
with every fold we make , the paper doubles in thickness . and if we continue to fold it again and again , always in half , we would confront the following situation after 10 folds . two to the power of 10 , meaning that you multiply two by itself 10 times , is one thousand and 24 thousandths of a centimeter , which is a little bit over one centimeter .	paenza ’ s problem assumes which of the following :	paenza ’ s problem assumes which of the following :
at the age of 41 , i was hit on by a 27-year-old guy . i know , right ? he was charming and i was flattered , and i declined .	how is the internet impacting an individual 's right to privacy ?	how is the internet impacting an individual 's right to privacy ?
it 's all made from the same elements that make up macaroni salad . so , to recap , everything is made of atoms . they are the stuff that things are made of .	atoms are the ________ .	atoms are the ________ .
if you can bend each finger just halfway , that gives us three different states - down , half bent , and raised . now , we can count using a base-three positional system , up to 59,048 . and if you can bend your fingers into four different states or more , you can get even higher .	the number 59,048 equals :	the number 59,048 equals :
if you can bend each finger just halfway , that gives us three different states - down , half bent , and raised . now , we can count using a base-three positional system , up to 59,048 . and if you can bend your fingers into four different states or more , you can get even higher .	although the placement of symbols now has some significance , this version of the roman numeral system is still not a system using place-value as we know it today . to illustrate how difficult computation is without the convenience of proper place-value , determine xcvi + ix + cdix + ccxxiv ( using only roman numerals in your scratch work )	although the placement of symbols now has some significance , this version of the roman numeral system is still not a system using place-value as we know it today . to illustrate how difficult computation is without the convenience of proper place-value , determine xcvi + ix + cdix + ccxxiv ( using only roman numerals in your scratch work )
otherwise , it will just let the photon pass by , and it just so happens that in glass , the rows are so far apart that a photon of visible light ca n't provide enough energy for an electron to jump between them . photons from ultraviolet light , on the other hand , give just the right amount of energy , and are absorbed , which is why you ca n't get a suntan through glass . this amazing property of being both solid and transparent has given glass many uses throughout the centuries .	explain why you ca n't get a suntan through glass .	explain why you ca n't get a suntan through glass .
what changed this dire situation was the help of humanity 's longtime animal partner : canis lupus familiaris , domesticated from grey wolves thousands of years ago . in 1890 , the german scientists von mering and minkowski demonstrated that removing a dog 's pancreas caused it to develop all the signs of diabetes , thus establishing the organ 's central role in the disease . but the exact mechanism by which this occurred remained a mystery until 1920 , when a young canadian surgeon named frederick banting and his student , charles best , advanced the findings of their german colleagues .	which organ did german scientists remove from dogs to first re-create the signs and symptoms of diabetes mellitus ?	which organ did german scientists remove from dogs to first re-create the signs and symptoms of diabetes mellitus ?
kathleen lane , chief strategist at workcar , says , `` i 've found a profession i love . '' she also says , `` stress is n't working 15 hours at a job you like , stress is working 15 minutes at a job you dislike . '' we can have a passion for people .	what ’ s the second part of this quote ? “ stress isn ’ t working 15 hours at a job you like … ”	what ’ s the second part of this quote ? “ stress isn ’ t working 15 hours at a job you like … ”
what field ? '' `` the higgs field . it 's named after peter higgs , although many others contributed to the idea .	where is the higgs field located ?	where is the higgs field located ?
what field ? '' `` the higgs field . it 's named after peter higgs , although many others contributed to the idea .	if the higgs field didn ’ t exist , what would be the consequence for our universe ?	if the higgs field didn ’ t exist , what would be the consequence for our universe ?
what field ? '' `` the higgs field . it 's named after peter higgs , although many others contributed to the idea .	who , other than peter higgs , developed the concept of what is commonly called the “ higgs field ” ?	who , other than peter higgs , developed the concept of what is commonly called the “ higgs field ” ?
the idea of a person moving such a huge mass on their own might sound like magic , but chances are you 've seen it in your everyday life . one of the best examples is something you might recognize from a childhood playground : a teeter-totter , or seesaw . let 's say you and a friend decide to hop on .	rewrite the equation that models a balanced teeter-totter to demonstrate equal ratios of the length of the arms and the weights . explain the steps you took .	rewrite the equation that models a balanced teeter-totter to demonstrate equal ratios of the length of the arms and the weights . explain the steps you took .
the idea of a person moving such a huge mass on their own might sound like magic , but chances are you 've seen it in your everyday life . one of the best examples is something you might recognize from a childhood playground : a teeter-totter , or seesaw . let 's say you and a friend decide to hop on .	on a teeter-totter , unequal weights at equal distances will _____ .	on a teeter-totter , unequal weights at equal distances will _____ .
the resulting internal conflict , known as cognitive dissonance , keeps you trapped , as each compromise makes it more painful to admit you 've been deceived . and though most cults do n't lead members to their death , they can still be harmful . by denying basic freedoms of thought , speech , and association , cults stunt their members ' psychological and emotional growth , a particular problem for children , who are deprived of normal developmental activities and milestones .	why are cults potentially harmful for children ?	why are cults potentially harmful for children ?
to get a feeling for how zombie nouns work , release a few of them into a lively sentence and watch them sap all its energy . george orwell played this game in his essay `` politics in the english language . '' he started with a well-known verse from the book of ecclesiastes in the bible .	george orwell rewrote a passage from ecclesiastes because he wanted to	george orwell rewrote a passage from ecclesiastes because he wanted to
so the chance of getting a one , two , three or four on both dice is 4/6 times 4/6 , or 16/36 . because someone has to win , the chance of player two winning is 36/36 minus 16/36 , or 20/36 . those are the exact same probabilities we got by making our table .	which player has a better probability of winning out of the 36 possible combinations of rolls ?	which player has a better probability of winning out of the 36 possible combinations of rolls ?
so potassium metal is very reactive . one of my colleagues who used to work with it , described it as evil .	as we can see in steve ’ s experiment with the potassium mirror , this alkaline metal is…	as we can see in steve ’ s experiment with the potassium mirror , this alkaline metal is…
( music ) eight to be great : the eight traits successful people have in common . number two : work .	which of these traits do successful people have in common ?	which of these traits do successful people have in common ?
this is a map of yellowstone national park for the most part the park is in wyoming but it extends a bit into montana and idaho this little 50 square miles section in idaho is what concerns us it 's called the zone of death because of a loophole that exists in the constitution of the united states if someone were to exploit that loophole they might be able to get away with murder yellowstone was established in 1872 before wyoming idaho and montana join the union it 's federal land and always has been but federal land across the u.s. is split up and divided into its corresponding state district courts except for yellowstone and this is where the loophole begins law professor brian c. kalt points out in his 2005 paper the perfect crime that yellowstone national park was assigned fully to wyoming 's district court even though small portions fall into montana and idaho unlike every other district the district of wyoming includes land in other state so kalt asks the question what happens if you 're caught for a crime you committed in that 50 square mile idea who region of the park the first thing law enforcement would do is bring you to cheyenne the hub of the district court of wyoming because the crime technically happened within wyoming 's jurisdiction but article 3 section 2 of the united states constitution says that the trial should happen in the state where you committed the crime if you 're a savvy murderer you invoke your right to a trial in idaho so they bring you back to idaho no big deal in the sixth amendment they said that they would require local juries and the language they use is that the jury has to be from the state and district where the crime was committed this is called the vicinage clause that leaves you with a sort of venn diagram you have the right to demand jury from that middle area where the state in which you committed the crime that 's idaho overlaps with the judicial jurisdiction where you committed the crime the wyoming district that has jurisdiction over yellowstone national park and here 's the problem nobody lives there there 's there 's no way for them to give you a trial and so i argue they should have to let you go this could also happen in the montana portion of the park except a few dozen people do live there so a jury could theoretically be called kalt has proposed numerous solutions to congress to fix the loophole but they have yet to act all they have to do is redraw the district line so that the district of wyoming is wyoming the district of idaho is in idaho and the district of montana in montana and if they do that it all goes away so if you 're planning a gathering of your adversaries exes and debtors maybe try yosemite	yellowstone national park is mostly in which state ?	yellowstone national park is mostly in which state ?
this is a map of yellowstone national park for the most part the park is in wyoming but it extends a bit into montana and idaho this little 50 square miles section in idaho is what concerns us it 's called the zone of death because of a loophole that exists in the constitution of the united states if someone were to exploit that loophole they might be able to get away with murder yellowstone was established in 1872 before wyoming idaho and montana join the union it 's federal land and always has been but federal land across the u.s. is split up and divided into its corresponding state district courts except for yellowstone and this is where the loophole begins law professor brian c. kalt points out in his 2005 paper the perfect crime that yellowstone national park was assigned fully to wyoming 's district court even though small portions fall into montana and idaho unlike every other district the district of wyoming includes land in other state so kalt asks the question what happens if you 're caught for a crime you committed in that 50 square mile idea who region of the park the first thing law enforcement would do is bring you to cheyenne the hub of the district court of wyoming because the crime technically happened within wyoming 's jurisdiction but article 3 section 2 of the united states constitution says that the trial should happen in the state where you committed the crime if you 're a savvy murderer you invoke your right to a trial in idaho so they bring you back to idaho no big deal in the sixth amendment they said that they would require local juries and the language they use is that the jury has to be from the state and district where the crime was committed this is called the vicinage clause that leaves you with a sort of venn diagram you have the right to demand jury from that middle area where the state in which you committed the crime that 's idaho overlaps with the judicial jurisdiction where you committed the crime the wyoming district that has jurisdiction over yellowstone national park and here 's the problem nobody lives there there 's there 's no way for them to give you a trial and so i argue they should have to let you go this could also happen in the montana portion of the park except a few dozen people do live there so a jury could theoretically be called kalt has proposed numerous solutions to congress to fix the loophole but they have yet to act all they have to do is redraw the district line so that the district of wyoming is wyoming the district of idaho is in idaho and the district of montana in montana and if they do that it all goes away so if you 're planning a gathering of your adversaries exes and debtors maybe try yosemite	which two states does yellowstone extend into a little bit ?	which two states does yellowstone extend into a little bit ?
this is a map of yellowstone national park for the most part the park is in wyoming but it extends a bit into montana and idaho this little 50 square miles section in idaho is what concerns us it 's called the zone of death because of a loophole that exists in the constitution of the united states if someone were to exploit that loophole they might be able to get away with murder yellowstone was established in 1872 before wyoming idaho and montana join the union it 's federal land and always has been but federal land across the u.s. is split up and divided into its corresponding state district courts except for yellowstone and this is where the loophole begins law professor brian c. kalt points out in his 2005 paper the perfect crime that yellowstone national park was assigned fully to wyoming 's district court even though small portions fall into montana and idaho unlike every other district the district of wyoming includes land in other state so kalt asks the question what happens if you 're caught for a crime you committed in that 50 square mile idea who region of the park the first thing law enforcement would do is bring you to cheyenne the hub of the district court of wyoming because the crime technically happened within wyoming 's jurisdiction but article 3 section 2 of the united states constitution says that the trial should happen in the state where you committed the crime if you 're a savvy murderer you invoke your right to a trial in idaho so they bring you back to idaho no big deal in the sixth amendment they said that they would require local juries and the language they use is that the jury has to be from the state and district where the crime was committed this is called the vicinage clause that leaves you with a sort of venn diagram you have the right to demand jury from that middle area where the state in which you committed the crime that 's idaho overlaps with the judicial jurisdiction where you committed the crime the wyoming district that has jurisdiction over yellowstone national park and here 's the problem nobody lives there there 's there 's no way for them to give you a trial and so i argue they should have to let you go this could also happen in the montana portion of the park except a few dozen people do live there so a jury could theoretically be called kalt has proposed numerous solutions to congress to fix the loophole but they have yet to act all they have to do is redraw the district line so that the district of wyoming is wyoming the district of idaho is in idaho and the district of montana in montana and if they do that it all goes away so if you 're planning a gathering of your adversaries exes and debtors maybe try yosemite	in which state does the “ zone of death ” belong ?	in which state does the “ zone of death ” belong ?
this is a map of yellowstone national park for the most part the park is in wyoming but it extends a bit into montana and idaho this little 50 square miles section in idaho is what concerns us it 's called the zone of death because of a loophole that exists in the constitution of the united states if someone were to exploit that loophole they might be able to get away with murder yellowstone was established in 1872 before wyoming idaho and montana join the union it 's federal land and always has been but federal land across the u.s. is split up and divided into its corresponding state district courts except for yellowstone and this is where the loophole begins law professor brian c. kalt points out in his 2005 paper the perfect crime that yellowstone national park was assigned fully to wyoming 's district court even though small portions fall into montana and idaho unlike every other district the district of wyoming includes land in other state so kalt asks the question what happens if you 're caught for a crime you committed in that 50 square mile idea who region of the park the first thing law enforcement would do is bring you to cheyenne the hub of the district court of wyoming because the crime technically happened within wyoming 's jurisdiction but article 3 section 2 of the united states constitution says that the trial should happen in the state where you committed the crime if you 're a savvy murderer you invoke your right to a trial in idaho so they bring you back to idaho no big deal in the sixth amendment they said that they would require local juries and the language they use is that the jury has to be from the state and district where the crime was committed this is called the vicinage clause that leaves you with a sort of venn diagram you have the right to demand jury from that middle area where the state in which you committed the crime that 's idaho overlaps with the judicial jurisdiction where you committed the crime the wyoming district that has jurisdiction over yellowstone national park and here 's the problem nobody lives there there 's there 's no way for them to give you a trial and so i argue they should have to let you go this could also happen in the montana portion of the park except a few dozen people do live there so a jury could theoretically be called kalt has proposed numerous solutions to congress to fix the loophole but they have yet to act all they have to do is redraw the district line so that the district of wyoming is wyoming the district of idaho is in idaho and the district of montana in montana and if they do that it all goes away so if you 're planning a gathering of your adversaries exes and debtors maybe try yosemite	what would happen if you committed a crime in the “ zone of death ” ?	what would happen if you committed a crime in the “ zone of death ” ?
this is a map of yellowstone national park for the most part the park is in wyoming but it extends a bit into montana and idaho this little 50 square miles section in idaho is what concerns us it 's called the zone of death because of a loophole that exists in the constitution of the united states if someone were to exploit that loophole they might be able to get away with murder yellowstone was established in 1872 before wyoming idaho and montana join the union it 's federal land and always has been but federal land across the u.s. is split up and divided into its corresponding state district courts except for yellowstone and this is where the loophole begins law professor brian c. kalt points out in his 2005 paper the perfect crime that yellowstone national park was assigned fully to wyoming 's district court even though small portions fall into montana and idaho unlike every other district the district of wyoming includes land in other state so kalt asks the question what happens if you 're caught for a crime you committed in that 50 square mile idea who region of the park the first thing law enforcement would do is bring you to cheyenne the hub of the district court of wyoming because the crime technically happened within wyoming 's jurisdiction but article 3 section 2 of the united states constitution says that the trial should happen in the state where you committed the crime if you 're a savvy murderer you invoke your right to a trial in idaho so they bring you back to idaho no big deal in the sixth amendment they said that they would require local juries and the language they use is that the jury has to be from the state and district where the crime was committed this is called the vicinage clause that leaves you with a sort of venn diagram you have the right to demand jury from that middle area where the state in which you committed the crime that 's idaho overlaps with the judicial jurisdiction where you committed the crime the wyoming district that has jurisdiction over yellowstone national park and here 's the problem nobody lives there there 's there 's no way for them to give you a trial and so i argue they should have to let you go this could also happen in the montana portion of the park except a few dozen people do live there so a jury could theoretically be called kalt has proposed numerous solutions to congress to fix the loophole but they have yet to act all they have to do is redraw the district line so that the district of wyoming is wyoming the district of idaho is in idaho and the district of montana in montana and if they do that it all goes away so if you 're planning a gathering of your adversaries exes and debtors maybe try yosemite	what does the vicinage clause state ?	what does the vicinage clause state ?
this is a map of yellowstone national park for the most part the park is in wyoming but it extends a bit into montana and idaho this little 50 square miles section in idaho is what concerns us it 's called the zone of death because of a loophole that exists in the constitution of the united states if someone were to exploit that loophole they might be able to get away with murder yellowstone was established in 1872 before wyoming idaho and montana join the union it 's federal land and always has been but federal land across the u.s. is split up and divided into its corresponding state district courts except for yellowstone and this is where the loophole begins law professor brian c. kalt points out in his 2005 paper the perfect crime that yellowstone national park was assigned fully to wyoming 's district court even though small portions fall into montana and idaho unlike every other district the district of wyoming includes land in other state so kalt asks the question what happens if you 're caught for a crime you committed in that 50 square mile idea who region of the park the first thing law enforcement would do is bring you to cheyenne the hub of the district court of wyoming because the crime technically happened within wyoming 's jurisdiction but article 3 section 2 of the united states constitution says that the trial should happen in the state where you committed the crime if you 're a savvy murderer you invoke your right to a trial in idaho so they bring you back to idaho no big deal in the sixth amendment they said that they would require local juries and the language they use is that the jury has to be from the state and district where the crime was committed this is called the vicinage clause that leaves you with a sort of venn diagram you have the right to demand jury from that middle area where the state in which you committed the crime that 's idaho overlaps with the judicial jurisdiction where you committed the crime the wyoming district that has jurisdiction over yellowstone national park and here 's the problem nobody lives there there 's there 's no way for them to give you a trial and so i argue they should have to let you go this could also happen in the montana portion of the park except a few dozen people do live there so a jury could theoretically be called kalt has proposed numerous solutions to congress to fix the loophole but they have yet to act all they have to do is redraw the district line so that the district of wyoming is wyoming the district of idaho is in idaho and the district of montana in montana and if they do that it all goes away so if you 're planning a gathering of your adversaries exes and debtors maybe try yosemite	why isn ’ t this a problem for the montana side of the park ?	why isn ’ t this a problem for the montana side of the park ?
this is a map of yellowstone national park for the most part the park is in wyoming but it extends a bit into montana and idaho this little 50 square miles section in idaho is what concerns us it 's called the zone of death because of a loophole that exists in the constitution of the united states if someone were to exploit that loophole they might be able to get away with murder yellowstone was established in 1872 before wyoming idaho and montana join the union it 's federal land and always has been but federal land across the u.s. is split up and divided into its corresponding state district courts except for yellowstone and this is where the loophole begins law professor brian c. kalt points out in his 2005 paper the perfect crime that yellowstone national park was assigned fully to wyoming 's district court even though small portions fall into montana and idaho unlike every other district the district of wyoming includes land in other state so kalt asks the question what happens if you 're caught for a crime you committed in that 50 square mile idea who region of the park the first thing law enforcement would do is bring you to cheyenne the hub of the district court of wyoming because the crime technically happened within wyoming 's jurisdiction but article 3 section 2 of the united states constitution says that the trial should happen in the state where you committed the crime if you 're a savvy murderer you invoke your right to a trial in idaho so they bring you back to idaho no big deal in the sixth amendment they said that they would require local juries and the language they use is that the jury has to be from the state and district where the crime was committed this is called the vicinage clause that leaves you with a sort of venn diagram you have the right to demand jury from that middle area where the state in which you committed the crime that 's idaho overlaps with the judicial jurisdiction where you committed the crime the wyoming district that has jurisdiction over yellowstone national park and here 's the problem nobody lives there there 's there 's no way for them to give you a trial and so i argue they should have to let you go this could also happen in the montana portion of the park except a few dozen people do live there so a jury could theoretically be called kalt has proposed numerous solutions to congress to fix the loophole but they have yet to act all they have to do is redraw the district line so that the district of wyoming is wyoming the district of idaho is in idaho and the district of montana in montana and if they do that it all goes away so if you 're planning a gathering of your adversaries exes and debtors maybe try yosemite	how could this loophole be fixed ?	how could this loophole be fixed ?
so a pure platinum cylinder was created to have the same mass as the water definition and it was declared kilogram of the archives . now it 's important to note at this point the kilogram is no longer tied to the mass of a volume of water -- the kilogram of the archives is by definition the kilogram . 90 years later , in 1889 the kilogram was upgraded to a platinum-iridium alloy cylinder .	which of the following did not define the kilogram ?	which of the following did not define the kilogram ?
and if we calculate the average kinetic energy of the group , we 'd have a number mathematically related to temperature . so , the more kinetic energy a group of molecules has , the higher its temperature . and that means that on a hot day , the molecules in the air around you are spinning , stretching , bending , and generally shooting around much faster than on a cold day .	temperature is a measure of a group of molecules ’ ________ .	temperature is a measure of a group of molecules ’ ________ .
- [ voiceover ] shuttle control houston . that was mission specialist sally ride comparing her flight to disneyland . - [ sally ] i wish that there had been another woman on my flight . i wish that two of us had gone up together .	sally ride says she wishes there had been another woman on her mission and that they could have been `` the first '' together . what do you imagine the benefits would be of sharing the responsibility of breaking new ground ?	sally ride says she wishes there had been another woman on her mission and that they could have been `` the first '' together . what do you imagine the benefits would be of sharing the responsibility of breaking new ground ?
no matter which way you face , or what coordinate system you place over the camp ground , the vector does n't change . let 's use the familiar cartesian coordinate system with its x and y axes . we call these two directions our coordinate basis because they 're used to describe everything we graph .	in the video , we used standard cartesian coordinates , x-hat and y-hat , and rotated those coordinates 180 degrees to get new coordinates , x-prime-hat and y-prime-hat . can you think of another commonly used coordinate system ? what might these coordinates be useful for describing ?	in the video , we used standard cartesian coordinates , x-hat and y-hat , and rotated those coordinates 180 degrees to get new coordinates , x-prime-hat and y-prime-hat . can you think of another commonly used coordinate system ? what might these coordinates be useful for describing ?
[ since 1998 the king salmon have been disappearing . ] [ ♪ music ♪ ] [ male speaker ] i 've been fishing all my life . in fact i used to fish with my dad .	ray waska teaches his grandchildren through his words and actions not only about fishing , but about living . what lessons about life have you learned from elders in your family or community ?	ray waska teaches his grandchildren through his words and actions not only about fishing , but about living . what lessons about life have you learned from elders in your family or community ?
suddenly the cell is making a new protein . at first , the protein may be useless , or even harmful , but more mutations can change the shape of the protein . the protein may start doing something useful , something that makes an organism healthier , stronger , better able to reproduce . scientists have found these new genes at work in many parts of animal bodies .	mutations can be cause a new , useless , or harmful protein to change shape and become useful . what may happen to the organism as a result ?	mutations can be cause a new , useless , or harmful protein to change shape and become useful . what may happen to the organism as a result ?
we can pump air into someone 's lungs , but it wo n't do much good if the many other processes involved in the respiratory cycle are no longer functioning . similarly , the electric shock from a defibrillator does n't jump-start an inanimate heart , but resynchronizes the muscle cells in an abnormally beating heart so they regain their normal rhythm . this can prevent a person from dying , but it wo n't raise a dead body , or a monster sewn together from dead bodies .	how does a defibrillator work ?	how does a defibrillator work ?
sound familiar right ? way number two : if you push with a force below the threshold force eventually , the ketchup will start to flow . in this case , time , not force , is the key to releasing ketchup from its glassy prison .	how much thinner does ketchup get if you apply a force greater than the threshold ?	how much thinner does ketchup get if you apply a force greater than the threshold ?
low-tech versions of this operation have made the surgery quick and inexpensive , helping it spread across the developing world . places like aravind eye hospital in india have pioneered high-volume , low-cost cataract surgery for as little as six dollars . why then , with all these advances , are there still so many blind people in the world ? the main issue is access to health care , with poor infrastructure and a shortage of doctors being a major barrier in many regions .	many advances have taken place in the field of eye surgery . what future advances do you anticipate may improve upon these procedures even further ?	many advances have taken place in the field of eye surgery . what future advances do you anticipate may improve upon these procedures even further ?
in fact , the government actively encouraged historians to produce accounts that disputed the city 's african origins . over time , however , an overwhelming body of evidence mounted , identifying great zimbabwe as an african city built by africans . during the 1960s and 70s , great zimbabwe became an important symbol for the african nationalist movement that was spreading across the continent .	who built great zimbabwe ?	who built great zimbabwe ?
other elements and characters were inspired directly and indirectly by various works in the victorian era , such as `` the mysterious stranger . '' the novel , upon release , was only a moderate success in its day , nor was it even stoker 's most well-known work , mentioned only briefly in a 1912 obituary . but a critical copyright battle would completely change dracula 's fate , and catapult the character into literary renown .	many people today consider `` dracula '' to be a great work of horror literature , but it was not considered this in its own day . what evidence do we have to prove this ?	many people today consider `` dracula '' to be a great work of horror literature , but it was not considered this in its own day . what evidence do we have to prove this ?
it is also found in a variety of minerals which contain silicon , oxygen and another metal which are known as silicates . and silicates occur in an enormous number of different minerals . it ’ s sort of the part of science that unless you are a specialist you find quite boring but if you really go into it like everything else it becomes really quite interesting .	what is the mineral composed of quartz , mica , and feldspar , three types of silicates ?	what is the mineral composed of quartz , mica , and feldspar , three types of silicates ?
once upon a time , south america lived harmoniously alongside africa until a crack in the earth drove the two continents apart . this breakup began about 200 million years ago during the separation of the supercontinent known as pangaea . their proximity back then explains why the same plant fossils and reptile fossils , like the mesosaurus , can be found on the south american east coast and african west coast .	what was the name of the supercontinent that existed about 300 million years ago ?	what was the name of the supercontinent that existed about 300 million years ago ?
popular depictions may evoke a green and groaning figure , but that 's not mary shelley 's monster . in fact , in the book , frankenstein refers to the nameless monster 's maker , dr. victor frankenstein . so tense is the struggle between creator and creature that the two have merged in our collective imagination .	the genre of frankenstein can be defined as :	the genre of frankenstein can be defined as :
popular depictions may evoke a green and groaning figure , but that 's not mary shelley 's monster . in fact , in the book , frankenstein refers to the nameless monster 's maker , dr. victor frankenstein . so tense is the struggle between creator and creature that the two have merged in our collective imagination .	dr. frankenstein flees from his monster because :	dr. frankenstein flees from his monster because :
popular depictions may evoke a green and groaning figure , but that 's not mary shelley 's monster . in fact , in the book , frankenstein refers to the nameless monster 's maker , dr. victor frankenstein . so tense is the struggle between creator and creature that the two have merged in our collective imagination .	why do you think frankenstein has appealed through the ages in many forms , to many different people ?	why do you think frankenstein has appealed through the ages in many forms , to many different people ?
neurons die quickly , so brains were a lost cause to ancient egyptian mummifiers , which is why , according to greek historian herodotus , they started the process by hammering a spike into the skull , mashing up the brain , flushing it out the nose and pouring tree resins into the skull to prevent further decomposition . brains may decay first , but decaying guts are much worse . the liver , stomach and intestines contain digestive enzymes and bacteria , which , upon death , start eating the corpse from the inside .	hundreds of modern people have had their bodies frozen in the hopes that in the future , they may be brought back to life . great care is taken to preserve the brain . how is this similar to egyptian mummification ? how is it different ?	hundreds of modern people have had their bodies frozen in the hopes that in the future , they may be brought back to life . great care is taken to preserve the brain . how is this similar to egyptian mummification ? how is it different ?
once a measurement is performed , subsequent measurements of the same property in the same particle will yield the same result . the strange implication of this scenario is not only that the state of a single particle is indeterminate until it 's measured , but that the measurement then determines the state . what 's more , the measurements affect each other .	the simplest test of entanglement uses a detector that makes a “ click ” when it detects state 1 , but does nothing for state 0. the lack of a click is then taken as a measurement of state 0. if the detectors are not 100 % efficient , though ( that is , they occasionally fail to produce a “ click ” when they ’ re supposed to ) , this opens a loophole in the experiment that might allow a local hidden variable theory to survive . how might this work ?	the simplest test of entanglement uses a detector that makes a “ click ” when it detects state 1 , but does nothing for state 0. the lack of a click is then taken as a measurement of state 0. if the detectors are not 100 % efficient , though ( that is , they occasionally fail to produce a “ click ” when they ’ re supposed to ) , this opens a loophole in the experiment that might allow a local hidden variable theory to survive . how might this work ?
and in the end , the hero triumphs over evil in an idyllic way , but at great personal , emotional sacrifice . king arthur is a good example of a romantic hero . sure , he became king and married the love of his life , but he was also killed by his son , who was born out of wedlock , and had his wife cheat on him with his best friend .	which of the following characters are an example of a romantic hero ?	which of the following characters are an example of a romantic hero ?
on top of it is the aqueous layer , which keeps iris hydrated , repels invasive bacteria , and protects her skin , or cornea , from damage . and , finally , there is the lipid layer , an oily outer film that keeps the surface smooth for iris to see through , and prevents the other layers from evaporating . normally , iris goes about her day without really noticing the basal tears doing their thing .	what would happen if there were no lipid layer to keep the surface of tears smooth ?	what would happen if there were no lipid layer to keep the surface of tears smooth ?
now we are going to try to detonate it or burn the hydrogen , in the air by giving it a match and the match we are going to use is again an electric match , which is connected to our detonator box . if you stick a pin in the balloon , the balloon will burst because the rubber will break , but the hydrogen will come out and it won ’ t react with the oxygen because the hydrogen is cool , it ’ s at the same temperature as the air , but the reaction of hydrogen and oxygen like many reactions involves so called activation energy , you have to put in a certain amount of energy to get it going . but once you get it going , you get more heat coming out , than you put in to start it off .	in the sun , which isotopes of hydrogen react to generate helium and a large amount of energy ?	in the sun , which isotopes of hydrogen react to generate helium and a large amount of energy ?
or how about this : shade in all of the odd numbers . it does n't look like much when the triangle 's small , but if you add thousands of rows , you get a fractal known as sierpinski 's triangle . this triangle is n't just a mathematical work of art . it 's also quite useful , especially when it comes to probability and calculations in the domain of combinatorics .	in pascal 's triangle , 11^3 has the value in the row corresponding to n=_____ .	in pascal 's triangle , 11^3 has the value in the row corresponding to n=_____ .
he studied myths from all over the world and published a book called `` the hero with a thousand faces , '' retelling dozens of stories and explaining how each represents the mono-myth , or hero 's journey . so , what is the `` hero 's journey '' ? think of it as a cycle .	what are the two worlds of the hero ’ s journey ?	what are the two worlds of the hero ’ s journey ?
he studied myths from all over the world and published a book called `` the hero with a thousand faces , '' retelling dozens of stories and explaining how each represents the mono-myth , or hero 's journey . so , what is the `` hero 's journey '' ? think of it as a cycle .	can you think of an episode from your own life that fits the hero ’ s journey formula ?	can you think of an episode from your own life that fits the hero ’ s journey formula ?
he studied myths from all over the world and published a book called `` the hero with a thousand faces , '' retelling dozens of stories and explaining how each represents the mono-myth , or hero 's journey . so , what is the `` hero 's journey '' ? think of it as a cycle .	what is another word for the “ hero ’ s journey ? ”	what is another word for the “ hero ’ s journey ? ”
he studied myths from all over the world and published a book called `` the hero with a thousand faces , '' retelling dozens of stories and explaining how each represents the mono-myth , or hero 's journey . so , what is the `` hero 's journey '' ? think of it as a cycle .	what author is most associated with the concept of the hero ’ s journey ?	what author is most associated with the concept of the hero ’ s journey ?
he studied myths from all over the world and published a book called `` the hero with a thousand faces , '' retelling dozens of stories and explaining how each represents the mono-myth , or hero 's journey . so , what is the `` hero 's journey '' ? think of it as a cycle .	according to the hero ’ s journey paradigm , the treasure you seek lies…	according to the hero ’ s journey paradigm , the treasure you seek lies…
but if we go in the other direction to look at the roots of true itself , we find even more relatives further up the family tree . the words trust , bethroth , and truce all derive from the same source as true , and these words all denote faithfulness or confidence . a thousand years ago , the word true looked and sounded different than it does today .	the words true , trust , and truce all denote	the words true , trust , and truce all denote
for example , typhoid -- which causes fever , abdominal pain , delirium , and can kill you -- smells like freshly baked brown bread . other infections smell totally differently . the skin of people with the virus yellow fever is said to smell like a butcher shop . and if you have a burn wound infected with the bacteria pseudomonas , it might smell like grape juice . but infections from bacteria and viruses are n't the only diseases that can make you emit a certain aroma .	what do infections from yellow fever and pseudomonas smell like ?	what do infections from yellow fever and pseudomonas smell like ?
corticosteroids reduce airway sensitivity and inflammation , so asthma can be kept under control . they 're also crucial in preventing long-term damage from chronic inflammation , which can cause scarring of the airways . inhalers are known to be very effective , and have helped many people live better lives .	long-term damage of the respiratory system ’ s airways can happen in asthma due to _____ .	long-term damage of the respiratory system ’ s airways can happen in asthma due to _____ .
and within any ecosystem , many of these flows are linked together to form a rich network of interactions , or food web , with dead matter supporting that network at every step . the resulting food web is so connected that almost every species is no more than two degrees from detritus , even us humans . you probably do n't eat rotting things , poop , or pond scum directly , but your food sources probably do . many animals we eat either feed directly on detritus themselves , like pork , poultry , mushrooms , shellfish , or catfish and other bottom feeders , or they are fed animal by-products . so , if you 're thinking nature is full of waste , you 're right .	do humans sometime eat detritus directly ? provide an example .	do humans sometime eat detritus directly ? provide an example .
for instance , even a few cumulus clouds in front of the sun can reduce the electricity production in solar towers to almost zero because of this dependence on direct rays . in solar panels , those clouds would decrease energy output as well , though not as much because solar panels can use all types of irradiance . however , all this depends on the clouds exact positioning . due to reflection , or a particular phenomeon called mie scattering , the sun 's rays can actually be focused forward by clouds to create a more than 50 % increase in the solar irradiance reaching a solar panel . if this potential increase is n't accounted for , it could damage the solar panel .	can clouds increase solar irradiance reaching a photovoltaic ?	can clouds increase solar irradiance reaching a photovoltaic ?
and for a bacterium , a mutation making it resistant to a certain antibiotic gives quite the edge . as the non-resistant bacteria are killed off , which happens especially quickly in antibiotic-rich environments , like hospitals , there is more room and resources for the resistant ones to thrive , passing along only the mutated genes that help them do so . reproduction is n't the only way to do this .	how do antibiotic-rich environments like hospitals speed up the rate at which superbugs increase their percentage of the bacteria population ?	how do antibiotic-rich environments like hospitals speed up the rate at which superbugs increase their percentage of the bacteria population ?
you probably also know that we 've sequenced the human genome , but what does that actually mean ? how do you sequence someone 's genome ? let 's back up a bit .	if there are 3 billion letters in the reference genome , how much did it cost per letter to sequence the first human genome ?	if there are 3 billion letters in the reference genome , how much did it cost per letter to sequence the first human genome ?
you probably also know that we 've sequenced the human genome , but what does that actually mean ? how do you sequence someone 's genome ? let 's back up a bit .	why is it necessary to generate so much dna sequence data all at once when sequencing a genome ?	why is it necessary to generate so much dna sequence data all at once when sequencing a genome ?
you probably also know that we 've sequenced the human genome , but what does that actually mean ? how do you sequence someone 's genome ? let 's back up a bit .	when scientists sequence the genome , why doesn ’ t it matter which strand of the double stranded dna is sequenced ?	when scientists sequence the genome , why doesn ’ t it matter which strand of the double stranded dna is sequenced ?
so `` globe '' becomes `` global , '' becomes `` globalize , '' becomes `` globalization . '' the grandfather of all nominalizations , antidisestablishmentarianism , contains at least two verbs , three adjectives , and six other nouns inside its distended belly . a paragraph heavily populated by nominalizations will send your readers straight to sleep .	“ the grandfather of all nominalizations , antidisestablishmentarianism , contains at least two verbs , three adjectives , and six other nouns inside its distended belly. ” can you identify that many potential words ? ( hint : not all of them can be found in a dictionary ! )	“ the grandfather of all nominalizations , antidisestablishmentarianism , contains at least two verbs , three adjectives , and six other nouns inside its distended belly. ” can you identify that many potential words ? ( hint : not all of them can be found in a dictionary ! )
when animals like us eat those plants our stomachs convert that food back into energy for our own growth . greenhouse gases are a byproduct of this process , and are released through waste . if those plants die , they decompose , and tiny microorganisms break down those carbohydrates and again , release greenhouse gases as a byproduct .	greenhouse gases are created by :	greenhouse gases are created by :
these leukocytes can be so large that they nearly fill a capillary causing a plasma space to open up in front of them . because the space and the white blood cells are both more transparent to blue light than the red blood cells normally present in capillaries , we see a moving dot of light wherever this happens , following the paths of your capillaries and moving in time with your pulse . under ideal viewing conditions , you might even see what looks like a dark tail following the dot .	why can you see the movement of white blood cells in your eyes ?	why can you see the movement of white blood cells in your eyes ?
these leukocytes can be so large that they nearly fill a capillary causing a plasma space to open up in front of them . because the space and the white blood cells are both more transparent to blue light than the red blood cells normally present in capillaries , we see a moving dot of light wherever this happens , following the paths of your capillaries and moving in time with your pulse . under ideal viewing conditions , you might even see what looks like a dark tail following the dot .	in the blue field entoptic phenomenon , you see the white blood cells . can you think of a medical reason for monitoring your white blood cells ?	in the blue field entoptic phenomenon , you see the white blood cells . can you think of a medical reason for monitoring your white blood cells ?
some of the solution 's properties will differ depending on the proportion of solute present . these are called colligative properties , and as luck would have it , they include freezing point depression and boiling point elevation . so , solutions have both a lower freezing point and a higher boiling point than pure solvent , and the more solute is present , the bigger the difference .	antifreeze is added to water in car radiators to ____ the freezing point and ____ the boiling point of the circulating liquid .	antifreeze is added to water in car radiators to ____ the freezing point and ____ the boiling point of the circulating liquid .
some of the solution 's properties will differ depending on the proportion of solute present . these are called colligative properties , and as luck would have it , they include freezing point depression and boiling point elevation . so , solutions have both a lower freezing point and a higher boiling point than pure solvent , and the more solute is present , the bigger the difference .	in cold climates , where rain may freeze on a cold road , transportation workers utilize the colligative property of freezing point depression by spreading salt on the pavement . explain how spreading salt can melt ice . using your background of knowledge , how might this salt affect the ecosystem in the immediate area of the road ?	in cold climates , where rain may freeze on a cold road , transportation workers utilize the colligative property of freezing point depression by spreading salt on the pavement . explain how spreading salt can melt ice . using your background of knowledge , how might this salt affect the ecosystem in the immediate area of the road ?
once we figure out a word 's meaningful elements , we can peel back its history to shed a little more light on why it 's spelled as it is . the word `` two , '' for example , needs its `` w '' in order to mark its connection to words like `` twice , '' `` twelve , '' `` twenty , '' `` twin '' and `` between . '' a word 's history is another layer of the onion .	a word 's history and its historical relatives inform us about why it is spelled as it is . for example , the in two makes sense when we think of its relationship to twin , twice , twelve , twenty , and between . look up some other words with the letters in a dictionary , and check the historical ( etymological ) information . do they bear any meaningful relationship to the word two ? try twig , twist , twine , twill , and twilight . consider the in debt or the in sign or the in muscle : why do you think those letters are there ?	a word 's history and its historical relatives inform us about why it is spelled as it is . for example , the in two makes sense when we think of its relationship to twin , twice , twelve , twenty , and between . look up some other words with the letters in a dictionary , and check the historical ( etymological ) information . do they bear any meaningful relationship to the word two ? try twig , twist , twine , twill , and twilight . consider the in debt or the in sign or the in muscle : why do you think those letters are there ?
then , a volley of fast , high-voltage discharges causes even more intense muscle contractions . the electric eel can also curl up so that the electric fields generated at each end of the electric organ overlap . the electrical storm eventually exhausts and immobilizes the prey , and the electric eel can swallow its meal alive .	how do the pulses generated by an electric eel affect its prey ?	how do the pulses generated by an electric eel affect its prey ?
otherwise , we could n't have succeeded so easily . a physicist named philip morrison summarizes by saying that seti is the archaeology of the future . by this , he meant that because the speed of light is finite , any signals detected from distant technologies will be telling us about their past by the time they reach us .	why does physicist philip morrison call seti `` the archaeology of the future '' ?	why does physicist philip morrison call seti `` the archaeology of the future '' ?
well , oddly enough , a third of that meal ends up in the trash . a third of the food we eat globally , an estimated 1.3 billion tons ends up as waste . all the work we put into producing that food is wasted .	according to the fao ( the food and agriculture organization of the united nations ) , what ratio of the food produced in the world ends up as waste ?	according to the fao ( the food and agriculture organization of the united nations ) , what ratio of the food produced in the world ends up as waste ?
you might think that the solution is to build shorter buildlings so that they shift as little as possible . but the 1985 mexico city earthquake is a good example of why that 's not the case . durng the quake , many buildings between six and fifteen stories tall collapsed . what 's strange is that while shorter buildings nearby did keep standing , buildings taller than fifteen stories were also less damaged , and the midsized buildings that collapsed were observed shaking far more violently than the earthquake itself . how is that possible ?	during the mexico city earthquake of 1985 certain buildings collapsed , while others remained standing . what was the issue with the buildings that collapsed ? how could these collapses have been avoided ?	during the mexico city earthquake of 1985 certain buildings collapsed , while others remained standing . what was the issue with the buildings that collapsed ? how could these collapses have been avoided ?
frequently , they also insert a metal or polymer stent that will hold the artery open . more extensive blockages might require coronary artery bypass surgery . using a piece of vein or artery from another part of the body , heart surgeons can reroute blood flow around the blockage .	in the hospital , which of the following treatments might be used for a patient with a blocked artery ?	in the hospital , which of the following treatments might be used for a patient with a blocked artery ?
and i hear that a lot . so how do people find their passion ? well they just get out there and try a lot of stuff and explore many paths .	how do you find your passion ?	how do you find your passion ?
religious differences are trivial and separate men , while trade is important and brings them together . his conclusion , that the plurality of religions in england leads to a more peaceful society , is , of course , a covert criticism of france , where the catholic church was so dominant . the letters concerning the english nation , also discuss locke and newton , thinkers then poorly known in france the subject-matter might seem challenging , but voltaire is a past master popularising difficult material .	what did voltaire believe a plurality of religions caused in society ?	what did voltaire believe a plurality of religions caused in society ?
when the rain comes back i hope a lot of work and a lot of people come back . i really like living in this town . i do n't want to leave this town .	what is the name of the town highlighted in the film ?	what is the name of the town highlighted in the film ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar being human , we each view ourselves as a unique and independent individual , but we 're never alone ! millions of microscopic beings inhabit our bodies , and no two bodies are the same . each is a different habitat for microbial communities : from the arid deserts of our skin , to the villages on our lips , and the cities in our mouths .	approximately how many microscopic beings inhabit our bodies ?	approximately how many microscopic beings inhabit our bodies ?
that 's why i say they 're not really workaholics . they 're workafrolics . jim pattison , chairman of the jim pattison group , is a workafrolic .	which of these people are workafrolics ?	which of these people are workafrolics ?
a person cultivated in this way works to help others , guiding them by moral inspiration rather than brute force . to put his philosophy into practice , confucius became an advisor to the ruler of his home state of lu . but after another state sent lu 's ruler a troop of dancing girls as a present and the ruler ignored his duties while enjoying the girls in private , confucius resigned in disgust . he then spent the next few years traveling from state to state , trying to find a worthy ruler to serve , while holding fast to his principles .	what did confucius think was the most important role of the ruler ?	what did confucius think was the most important role of the ruler ?
but even modern televisions cause a strain on your eyes . under normal circumstances , humans blink around 18 times per minute , but when staring at a screen , this rate decreases drastically causing sore and tired eyes . fortunately , these symptoms are generally short-term .	staring at a screen will make you	staring at a screen will make you
so what does that mean ? while the school of fish is elegantly twisting , turning , and dodging sharks in what looks like deliberate coordination , each individual fish is actually just following two basic rules that have nothing to do with the shark : one , stay close , but not too close to your neighbor , and two , keep swimmming . as individuals , the fish are focused on the minutiae of these local interactions , but if enough fish join the group , something remarkable happens .	what two simple rules do individual fish follow that allows them aggregate into schools ( pick two of the below ) ? a. keep swimming b. do whatever you want c. stay close to your neighbor d. move in the opposite direction of predators	what two simple rules do individual fish follow that allows them aggregate into schools ( pick two of the below ) ? a. keep swimming b. do whatever you want c. stay close to your neighbor d. move in the opposite direction of predators
so what does that mean ? while the school of fish is elegantly twisting , turning , and dodging sharks in what looks like deliberate coordination , each individual fish is actually just following two basic rules that have nothing to do with the shark : one , stay close , but not too close to your neighbor , and two , keep swimmming . as individuals , the fish are focused on the minutiae of these local interactions , but if enough fish join the group , something remarkable happens .	what are the two basic ways in which neurons interact with each other ( pick two ) ? a. excitation b. inhibition c. dis-inhibition d. central pattern generator	what are the two basic ways in which neurons interact with each other ( pick two ) ? a. excitation b. inhibition c. dis-inhibition d. central pattern generator
on the fifth highest floor , to fulfill our starting conditions , we 'd need four rooms with three neighbors each , plus the control panel room with one neighbor , which makes 13 total neighbors . since that 's an odd number , it 's not possible , and , in fact , this also rules out every floor that has an odd number of rooms . so let 's go one more floor down . when we draw out the rooms , low and behold , we can find an arrangement that works like this .	we see from the solution in the video that a floor containing six rooms is possible and six is the smallest number for which it is possible . would a floor having eight rooms be possible even if not the smallest ?	we see from the solution in the video that a floor containing six rooms is possible and six is the smallest number for which it is possible . would a floor having eight rooms be possible even if not the smallest ?
with the romans gone , the germanic tribes , the angles , saxons , jutes , and frisians quickly sailed across the water , did away with the celts , and formed kingdoms in the british isles . for several centuries , these tribes lived in britain , and their germanic language , anglo saxon , became the common language , what we call old english . although modern english speakers may think old english sounds like a different language , if you look and listen closely , you 'll find many words that are recognizable . for example , here is what the lord 's prayer looks like in old english .	old english derives from which family of languages :	old english derives from which family of languages :
with the romans gone , the germanic tribes , the angles , saxons , jutes , and frisians quickly sailed across the water , did away with the celts , and formed kingdoms in the british isles . for several centuries , these tribes lived in britain , and their germanic language , anglo saxon , became the common language , what we call old english . although modern english speakers may think old english sounds like a different language , if you look and listen closely , you 'll find many words that are recognizable . for example , here is what the lord 's prayer looks like in old english .	based on the increasingly diverse population in the united states and on the past history of english , what prediction can you make about the future of the english language ? what factors may influence the future evolution of our language ?	based on the increasingly diverse population in the united states and on the past history of english , what prediction can you make about the future of the english language ? what factors may influence the future evolution of our language ?
tuxedo , surprisingly , has its roots in native american history . the delaware indians of what is now the northeast united states , were divided into three subgroups , distinguished by their animal totems : the turkey , the turtle , and the wolf . members of the tribe belonging to the wolf totem were often referred to by the indigenous word for the four-footed canine , p'tuksit .	which was not one of the animals that distinguished one of the subgroups of the delaware indians ?	which was not one of the animals that distinguished one of the subgroups of the delaware indians ?
so what if arthropods were the first to reach land and invent flight , a hundred million years before the rest of us ? so what if they pollinate crops around the world , and make up 75 % of all land animal species ? and that for every single human , there 's 200 million of them ?	if we were to run the evolutionary clock backwards to the dawn of animal life , would the same animal phyla emerge ? would homo sapiens evolve ? what elements of animal evolution are , or are not , inevitable ? are land colonization and sentience inevitable ?	if we were to run the evolutionary clock backwards to the dawn of animal life , would the same animal phyla emerge ? would homo sapiens evolve ? what elements of animal evolution are , or are not , inevitable ? are land colonization and sentience inevitable ?
or maybe they were wrong simply because they were reasoning carelessly from the total body of their evidence . but whatever the reason , they turned out to be wrong and many people who trusted their authority ended up losing lots of money , losing lots of other people 's money , on account of that misplaced trust . so while appealing to authority can sometimes provide us with valuable knowledge , it also can sometimes be the cause of monumental errors .	you have some money that you can invest . but you ’ re not sure how best to invest it . do you buy stocks ? bonds ? real estate ? how do you make your decision ? what sources do you consult ? why do you trust those sources ? why do you not trust other sources ?	you have some money that you can invest . but you ’ re not sure how best to invest it . do you buy stocks ? bonds ? real estate ? how do you make your decision ? what sources do you consult ? why do you trust those sources ? why do you not trust other sources ?
today i invite you on a journey on which you will learn how to use ed.ted.com to create a lesson around the vast majority of videos on the web . when i say , `` create a lesson , '' i mean that you may use the ted-ed website to search for any video on youtube . once you find the perfect video , the one that really blows your hair back , helps you understand , or that makes you pause and say , `` my goodness , the universe is a fascinating place !	what does flipping a lesson mean ?	what does flipping a lesson mean ?
today i invite you on a journey on which you will learn how to use ed.ted.com to create a lesson around the vast majority of videos on the web . when i say , `` create a lesson , '' i mean that you may use the ted-ed website to search for any video on youtube . once you find the perfect video , the one that really blows your hair back , helps you understand , or that makes you pause and say , `` my goodness , the universe is a fascinating place !	if you could make an improvement to the lesson , what would it be ?	if you could make an improvement to the lesson , what would it be ?
you can recreate almost everything you 've seen in this lesson with a pen , paper , and a camera . the method is called cut-out animation , and it was around well before the age of software . to create a stumbling 2-d zombie , or a speeding narwhal , or even an abstract character with some semblance of joints , simply print , cut , and fasten your character 's limbs together in a neutral pose .	what is the process called where you create animation by drawing , cutting out the drawing , and taking pictures of it after you move it ?	what is the process called where you create animation by drawing , cutting out the drawing , and taking pictures of it after you move it ?
and so you can see they 're actually quite tremendous ants , i mean , they 're really foreboding , [ * worker bullet ants are 18–30 mm long ] they 're crazy big and they 're cool . [ * worker bullet ants are 18–30 mm long ] - are they the largest ant ? - they 're one of the largest ants .	how long are worker bullet ants ?	how long are worker bullet ants ?
so how does that work ? well , everything starts with a circle . the first major decision is how will you divide it up ? most patterns split the circle into four , five or six equal sections .	every islamic geometric pattern begins with a circle . what is the first major decision you take after drawing the first circle ?	every islamic geometric pattern begins with a circle . what is the first major decision you take after drawing the first circle ?
let 's think of one other thing - astronauts . you know , astronauts , they weigh less on the moon than on the earth . why is that ?	why do astronauts weigh less on the moon than they do on the earth ?	why do astronauts weigh less on the moon than they do on the earth ?
[ music ] a tetrad of lunar eclipses – presented by science @ nasa for people in the united states , an extraordinary series of lunar eclipses is about to begin . the action starts on april 15th when the full moon passes through the amber shadow of earth , producing a midnight eclipse visible across north america .	what are the three types of lunar eclipses , and how do they differ ?	what are the three types of lunar eclipses , and how do they differ ?
for example , refraction , which is how a beam of light appears to bend as it passes from air into water . but , in science , even geniuses sometimes get things wrong . in the 19th century , long after newton died , scientists did a series of experiments that clearly showed that light ca n't be made up of tiny , atom-like particles .	colm says , `` even geniuses sometimes get things wrong . '' what other major scientific principles did scientists get wrong for centuries and centuries ? when were these principles correctly proven ?	colm says , `` even geniuses sometimes get things wrong . '' what other major scientific principles did scientists get wrong for centuries and centuries ? when were these principles correctly proven ?
in the olympic games , fosbury amazed the world with his new technique , winning a gold metal with an olympic record leap of 2.24 meters . by the next olympic games , almost all of the competing of high jumpers had adopted what came to be known as the fosbury flop . what 's the secret behind the technique ?	why do you think high jumpers need to be very flexible in order to succeed in jumping using the fosbury flop ?	why do you think high jumpers need to be very flexible in order to succeed in jumping using the fosbury flop ?
the inside of it was coated with ice so we had to wear big spikes in our feet called crampons , so we could walk around without slipping . this cave was amazing ! the ice in the ceiling was glowing blue and green because the sunlight from far above was shining through the ice and lighting it all up .	explain the process of mapping a cave .	explain the process of mapping a cave .
some tried to circumvent the problem through risky dives , often with tragic results . finally , in 1947 , design improvements , such as a movable horizontal stabilizer , the all-moving tail , allowed an american military pilot named chuck yeager to fly the bell x-1 aircraft at 1127 km/h , becoming the first person to break the sound barrier and travel faster than the speed of sound . the bell x-1 was the first of many supersonic aircraft to follow , with later designs reaching speeds over mach 3 .	describe the dramatic change in the wavefronts before and after an aircraft breaks the sound barrier .	describe the dramatic change in the wavefronts before and after an aircraft breaks the sound barrier .
so here we have tin , but this is a different sample of tin from what people might be used to because most people see tin in foil , or they think it is tin foil that they use to wrap up the chicken , mostly that is aluminium foil . tin has the symbol sn because it comes from the latin word stannum which means tin and in fact if you go to devon in the southwest of england you will find that some of the towns there are called stannary towns because that ’ s where they used to mine and trade in tin .	tin 's other well-known use is for toy soldiers . what is the melting point of tin ?	tin 's other well-known use is for toy soldiers . what is the melting point of tin ?
i managed to close my eyes this time ( ! ) during the second world war , when the us government was involved in enriching uranium as part of the manhattan project they needed an enormous amount of wire to make magnets . and so a huge amount of silver was taken from the us treasury where it was stored as silver to give value to the us dollar and was turned into wires to make magnets . and i believe that the silver was never returned or at least it wasn ’ t returned at the end of the war as was promised .	during the second world war , a huge amount of silver was taken from the us treasury . how was it used ?	during the second world war , a huge amount of silver was taken from the us treasury . how was it used ?
how do we make sense of such a massive text that comes from and tells of a world so far away ? the fact that we can read the `` odyssey '' at all is pretty incredible , as it was composed before the greek alphabet appeared in the 8th century bce . it was made for listeners rather than readers , and was performed by oral poets called rhapsodes .	when did the greek alphabet first appear ?	when did the greek alphabet first appear ?
but it does n't guarantee what condition you 'll be alive in . look at your body and count how many scars you have . if you have made this many permanent scars within your life , imagine how much damage you would have if you were one thousand years old !	which of these body parts can grow back if it is cut off ?	which of these body parts can grow back if it is cut off ?
these tests are pretty reliable , but they 're not failproof . for instance , false negatives can occur if concentrations of hcg are n't high enough for detection . after implantation , hcg levels double every two to three days , so it may just be too early to tell .	what can give a false positive ?	what can give a false positive ?
so , the case went to trial and dreyfus was found guilty . and afterwards they took him out into this public square and ritualistically tore his insignia for his uniform and broke his sword and two . this is called the degradation of dreyfus .	what are the two types of mindsets that galef outlines in her talk ?	what are the two types of mindsets that galef outlines in her talk ?
the problem with aluminium sauce pans is that if you 're cooking some fairly acidic food , for example boiling lemons or rhubarb something like that which is quite acidic you can dissolve some of the aluminium and people got quite worried about getting aluminium in their food . also , if you cook red cabbage , which is an indicator ; blue for alkali , red for acid , then if you boil it in an aluminium sauce pan it goes blue . and earlier in my carreer i used a red cabbage together with a white one to make a union jack , a u.k. flag with a mixture of red and blue-red cabbage and the white from the white cabbage . unfortionately , i 've lost the photo ; brady is very cross with me .	how did an aluminium cooking pan allow the professor to make a flag out of red and white cabbage ?	how did an aluminium cooking pan allow the professor to make a flag out of red and white cabbage ?
so , an object will continue moving or staying at the same place unless something changes it . acceleration is the rate the velocity changes over time . when the girl at rest , velocity equals zero miles per hour , begins accelerating to reach the speed within seconds , velocity increases rapidly to 25,000 miles per hour , her brain would crash into the side of her skull .	why is it that astronauts can travel that fast without being injured but the girl mentioned above would die ? what is the difference between velocity and acceleration ?	why is it that astronauts can travel that fast without being injured but the girl mentioned above would die ? what is the difference between velocity and acceleration ?
finally , from vitamin k , we score the ability to clot blood , since it helps make the proteins that do this job . without this vitamin variety , humans face deficiencies that cause a range of problems , like fatigue , nerve damage , heart disorders , or diseases like rickets and scurvy . on the other hand , too much of any vitamin can cause toxicity in the body , so there goes the myth that loading yourself with supplements is a great idea .	humans need the correct amount of vitamins to function . too much or too little of any one vitamin can cause problems . list five vitamins and problems associated with too much of each one .	humans need the correct amount of vitamins to function . too much or too little of any one vitamin can cause problems . list five vitamins and problems associated with too much of each one .
because making music also involves crafting and understanding its emotional content and message , musicians often have higher levels of executive function , a category of interlinked tasks that includes planning , strategizing , and attention to detail and requires simultaneous analysis of both cognitive and emotional aspects . this ability also has an impact on how our memory systems work . and , indeed , musicians exhibit enhanced memory functions , creating , storing , and retrieving memories more quickly and efficiently .	learning a musical instrument has been found to assist in our memory abilities . how does your capacity to remember facts , ideas , things you have seen and heard , impact on your ability to learn ?	learning a musical instrument has been found to assist in our memory abilities . how does your capacity to remember facts , ideas , things you have seen and heard , impact on your ability to learn ?
one person might have mild dyslexia while the next person has a profound case of it . dyslexia also runs in families . it 's common to see one family member who has trouble spelling while another family member has severe difficulty decoding even one syllable words , like catch .	students with dyslexia learn best with which type of teaching ?	students with dyslexia learn best with which type of teaching ?
one person might have mild dyslexia while the next person has a profound case of it . dyslexia also runs in families . it 's common to see one family member who has trouble spelling while another family member has severe difficulty decoding even one syllable words , like catch .	which of the following is an attribute of dyslexia ?	which of the following is an attribute of dyslexia ?
one person might have mild dyslexia while the next person has a profound case of it . dyslexia also runs in families . it 's common to see one family member who has trouble spelling while another family member has severe difficulty decoding even one syllable words , like catch .	does dyslexia run in families ?	does dyslexia run in families ?
one person might have mild dyslexia while the next person has a profound case of it . dyslexia also runs in families . it 's common to see one family member who has trouble spelling while another family member has severe difficulty decoding even one syllable words , like catch .	explain the cause of dyslexia .	explain the cause of dyslexia .
why begin to inhale air only to suddenly stop it from actually entering the lungs ? anatomical structures , or physiological mechanisms , with no apparent purpose present challenges to evolutionary biologists . do such structures serve some hidden function that has n't yet been discovered ?	what do biologists mean by the word evolution ? what do we mean when we say that the most likely mechanism for evolution is natural selection ?	what do biologists mean by the word evolution ? what do we mean when we say that the most likely mechanism for evolution is natural selection ?
why begin to inhale air only to suddenly stop it from actually entering the lungs ? anatomical structures , or physiological mechanisms , with no apparent purpose present challenges to evolutionary biologists . do such structures serve some hidden function that has n't yet been discovered ?	some vertebrate biologists believe that the swim bladder used by many fishes today to achieve neutral buoyancy is homologous to the human lung . what do we mean by homologous , and how could two structures with such completely different functions be related ?	some vertebrate biologists believe that the swim bladder used by many fishes today to achieve neutral buoyancy is homologous to the human lung . what do we mean by homologous , and how could two structures with such completely different functions be related ?
by translating the 1 's and 0 's of binary code into dna codons , digital data could be programmed into synthetic dna , then decoded back into its original form . in 2012 , uk scientists encoded 739 kilobytes of computer files into dna strands , including all 154 shakespeare sonnets and an excerpt from martin luther king 's `` i have a dream '' speech . and four years later , researchers at microsoft and the university of washington broke that record .	in 2012 uk scientists encoded 739 kilobytes of data into dna , including :	in 2012 uk scientists encoded 739 kilobytes of data into dna , including :
look again at how it moves . stiff legs , long stance , these are n't parkinsonian movements , parkinson 's patients take short , shuffling steps , and the posture 's all wrong . this looks to me like what happens when the cerebellum is damaged .	how do reports on pervious neurological patients help us to deduce the nature of a brain injury in future patients ?	how do reports on pervious neurological patients help us to deduce the nature of a brain injury in future patients ?
take the question of our origins . both science and religion attempt to approach this question . but the religions all contradict each other , so they ca n't all be right .	according to carl sagan , what question do both science and religion seek to answer ?	according to carl sagan , what question do both science and religion seek to answer ?
thing is , where i 'm from in western canada , there 's clearcuts like this hidden everywhere , and it was n't until google earth starting sending images , like this , that we realized the whole world was wiping its noses on our old-growth forests . did you know that deforestation like this around the world causes more greenhouse gas emissions than all the trains , planes and automobiles combined ? yeah , i 'm really upset about this , but i 'm also really hopeful because i 've also discovered in my research that forest networks are organized in the same way as our own neural networks and our social networks .	deforestation creates more greenhouse gas emissions than all of the trains , planes , and automobiles combined .	deforestation creates more greenhouse gas emissions than all of the trains , planes , and automobiles combined .
the ultimate support for torricelli 's theory came via blaise pascal who had such a mercury tube taken up a mountain and showed that the mercury level dropped as the atmospheric pressure decreased with altitude . mercury barometers based on torricelli 's original model remained one of the most common ways to measure atmospheric pressure until 2007 when restrictions on the use of mercury due to its toxicity led to them no longer being produced in europe . nevertheless , torricelli 's invention , born of the willingness to question long accepted dogmas about vacuums and the weight of air , is an outstanding example of how thinking outside of the box -- or the tube -- can have a heavy impact .	what happened to mercury barometers in 2007 ?	what happened to mercury barometers in 2007 ?
voyages relied on sturdy wa'a kaulua , or double-hulled canoes , which were powered by sails and steered with a single large oar . canoe building involved the whole community , bringing together the navigators , canoe builders , priests , chanters , and hula dancers . navigators were keen observers of the natural world .	what was the most valued aspect in canoe building ?	what was the most valued aspect in canoe building ?
i came from a world of drifters , a place few humans have ever seen . the world of plankton . i came from a batch of a million eggs , and only a few of us survived .	how abundant are plankton ?	how abundant are plankton ?
i came from a world of drifters , a place few humans have ever seen . the world of plankton . i came from a batch of a million eggs , and only a few of us survived .	why do some plankton migrate vertically ?	why do some plankton migrate vertically ?
i came from a world of drifters , a place few humans have ever seen . the world of plankton . i came from a batch of a million eggs , and only a few of us survived .	based on what you learned from the video , which of the following can you identify as a misconception about plankton ?	based on what you learned from the video , which of the following can you identify as a misconception about plankton ?
but that is n't the case for all animals . take the zebrafish , a master regenerator . it can grow back its skin , bones , heart and retina after they 've been damaged .	zebrafish really are master regenerators – they regenerate skin , bones , and heart if they 're damaged ! what other diseases or injuries might with be able to treat by studying the zebrafish 's regenerative abilities ?	zebrafish really are master regenerators – they regenerate skin , bones , and heart if they 're damaged ! what other diseases or injuries might with be able to treat by studying the zebrafish 's regenerative abilities ?
so a movement must be public . it 's important to show not just the leader , but the followers , because you find that new followers emulate the followers , not the leader . now , here come two more people , and immediately after , three more people .	who do new followers emulate ?	who do new followers emulate ?
so a movement must be public . it 's important to show not just the leader , but the followers , because you find that new followers emulate the followers , not the leader . now , here come two more people , and immediately after , three more people .	why do we need to be followers instead of just leaders ? why does it take guts ?	why do we need to be followers instead of just leaders ? why does it take guts ?
when your band is trying to perform , feedback is an annoying obstacle , but in the grand orchestra of nature , feedback is not only beneficial , it 's what makes everything work . what exactly is feedback ? the key element , whether in sound , the environment or social science , is a phenomenon called mutual causal interaction , where x affects y , y affects x , and so on , creating an ongoing process called a feedback loop .	the strength of a feedback loop is ________ .	the strength of a feedback loop is ________ .
when your band is trying to perform , feedback is an annoying obstacle , but in the grand orchestra of nature , feedback is not only beneficial , it 's what makes everything work . what exactly is feedback ? the key element , whether in sound , the environment or social science , is a phenomenon called mutual causal interaction , where x affects y , y affects x , and so on , creating an ongoing process called a feedback loop .	describe three examples of positive feedback and three of negative feedback , in other systems that have many interacting parts – such as economic , social , political systems .	describe three examples of positive feedback and three of negative feedback , in other systems that have many interacting parts – such as economic , social , political systems .
but wisdom and emotional intelligence seem pretty high on the hierarchy of needs . does sadness have value on a more basic , tangible , maybe even evolutionary level ? scientists think that crying and feeling withdrawn is what originally helped our ancestors secure social bonds and helped them get the support they needed .	evolutionary theorists have posited that sadness was an evolutionary benefit because :	evolutionary theorists have posited that sadness was an evolutionary benefit because :
another challenge to defining love is we often try to do so while falling into it or out of it . would you trust someone who just won the lottery to accurately define the concept of currency ? or , i do n't know , ask a guy to define bears while he 's fending them off ?	how could you identify that someone loves you ?	how could you identify that someone loves you ?
the person doing the asking is part of the problem , too . that 's called interviewer bias . interviewer bias is all about the effect that the person asking the questions has on the sample .	an interviewer , the person asking the questions , might influence the respondents ’ answers without even meaning to ! for instance , the gender of the interviewer could play a role in how people may choose to answer . what are some other characteristics of an interviewer that might affect a poll ’ s answers ?	an interviewer , the person asking the questions , might influence the respondents ’ answers without even meaning to ! for instance , the gender of the interviewer could play a role in how people may choose to answer . what are some other characteristics of an interviewer that might affect a poll ’ s answers ?
sputnik was actually not the first piece of human technology to enter space . that superlative goes to the v-2 rocket used by germany in missile attacks against allied cities as a last-ditch effort in the final years of world war ii . it was n't very effective , but , at the end of the war , both the u.s. and u.s.s.r. had captured the technology and the scientists that had developed it and began using them for their own projects .	what materials do you need to construct a rocket ? describe why you need these materials .	what materials do you need to construct a rocket ? describe why you need these materials .
icecube has already observed the highest energy cosmic neutrinos ever seen . the neutrinos it detects should finally tell us where cosmic rays come from and how they reached such extreme energies . light , from infrared , to x-rays , to gamma rays , has given us increasingly energetic and continuously surprising views of the universe . we are now at the dawn of the age of neutrino astronomy , and we have no idea what revelations icecube and other neutrino telescopes may bring us about the universe 's most violent , most energetic phenomena .	for many years , light has been the main tool for exploring the universe . what do you think neutrinos can tell us that light can not ?	for many years , light has been the main tool for exploring the universe . what do you think neutrinos can tell us that light can not ?
in islamic culture , geometry is everywhere . you can find it in mosques , madrasas , palaces and private homes .	geometry is everywhere in the natural world . can you find of examples of fourfold , fivefold and sixfold geometry in nature ?	geometry is everywhere in the natural world . can you find of examples of fourfold , fivefold and sixfold geometry in nature ?
after a while , every additional bottle becomes a burden . that 's when you begin to choose diamonds over water . and it 's not just necessities like water .	who among the following economists wrote about the ‘ water and diamonds ’ paradox of value ?	who among the following economists wrote about the ‘ water and diamonds ’ paradox of value ?
after a while , every additional bottle becomes a burden . that 's when you begin to choose diamonds over water . and it 's not just necessities like water .	why do you think diamonds are priced higher than water ? can there ever be a situation where diamonds are priced equal to or maybe even lesser than water ?	why do you think diamonds are priced higher than water ? can there ever be a situation where diamonds are priced equal to or maybe even lesser than water ?
while orangutans are able to pass cognitive tests with flying colors , there are certain problems that they need our help to solve . indonesia has the world 's highest rate of deforestation , and millions of acres of rain forest are burned annually to support the logging and palm oil industries . deforestation exposes the 30,000 orangutans remaining in the wild to poachers .	why does indonesia have the highest rate of deforestation in the world ?	why does indonesia have the highest rate of deforestation in the world ?
pick a card , any card . actually , just pick up all of them and take a look .	the symbol “ ! ” in math is usually _________ .	the symbol “ ! ” in math is usually _________ .
pick a card , any card . actually , just pick up all of them and take a look .	6 ! is equal to ________ .	6 ! is equal to ________ .
with the romans gone , the germanic tribes , the angles , saxons , jutes , and frisians quickly sailed across the water , did away with the celts , and formed kingdoms in the british isles . for several centuries , these tribes lived in britain , and their germanic language , anglo saxon , became the common language , what we call old english . although modern english speakers may think old english sounds like a different language , if you look and listen closely , you 'll find many words that are recognizable .	what is so noteworthy about the history of the english language ?	what is so noteworthy about the history of the english language ?
for all their travelling , many people think that these slabs of ice are barren of life , but these seemingly sterile ice slabs also harbor their own complex ecosystems and they shape the ecosystems that they pass through . they become mobile , floating ecosystems . even in the coldest seas , icebergs are always melting , at least a little bit .	as an iceberg floats in the sea what processes will cause it to become smaller , or disappear entirely ? explain why this happens .	as an iceberg floats in the sea what processes will cause it to become smaller , or disappear entirely ? explain why this happens .
for all their travelling , many people think that these slabs of ice are barren of life , but these seemingly sterile ice slabs also harbor their own complex ecosystems and they shape the ecosystems that they pass through . they become mobile , floating ecosystems . even in the coldest seas , icebergs are always melting , at least a little bit .	icebergs become mobile floating ecosystems ; describe some of the creatures that thrive because of them . what are the attributes of an iceberg that attract these creatures ?	icebergs become mobile floating ecosystems ; describe some of the creatures that thrive because of them . what are the attributes of an iceberg that attract these creatures ?
the electrons are no longer available to flow through a circuit and the battery dies . some everyday rechargeable batteries will die after only hundreds of discharge-recharge cycles , while newer , advanced batteries can survive and function for thousands . batteries of the future may be light , thin sheets that operate on the principles of quantum physics and last for hundreds of thousands of charge cycles .	rechargeable batteries are different than standard batteries because _____ .	rechargeable batteries are different than standard batteries because _____ .
the electrons are no longer available to flow through a circuit and the battery dies . some everyday rechargeable batteries will die after only hundreds of discharge-recharge cycles , while newer , advanced batteries can survive and function for thousands . batteries of the future may be light , thin sheets that operate on the principles of quantum physics and last for hundreds of thousands of charge cycles .	rechargeable batteries can no longer function when _____ .	rechargeable batteries can no longer function when _____ .
the research is still fairly new , but neuroscientists have a pretty good idea . playing a musical instrument engages practically every area of the brain at once , especially the visual , auditory , and motor cortices . as with any other workout , disciplined , structured practice in playing music strengthens those brain functions , allowing us to apply that strength to other activities .	learning a musical instrument engages which different areas of the brain at the same time ?	learning a musical instrument engages which different areas of the brain at the same time ?
the research is still fairly new , but neuroscientists have a pretty good idea . playing a musical instrument engages practically every area of the brain at once , especially the visual , auditory , and motor cortices . as with any other workout , disciplined , structured practice in playing music strengthens those brain functions , allowing us to apply that strength to other activities .	learning a musical instrument teaches your brain how to create , ______ and retrieve memories more effectively ?	learning a musical instrument teaches your brain how to create , ______ and retrieve memories more effectively ?
in our analogy of the party , all particles are equal until they enter the room . both peter higgs and the tax collector have zero mass . it is the interaction with the crowd that causes them to gain mass .	a particle can have zero mass if	a particle can have zero mass if
as migrators pass over the continent , they run a gauntlet of dangers , including pesticide ingestion in rural farmlands , habitat loss in suburban developments , as well as disorientation from light pollution , and even structure collision with tall , reflective glass buildings in cities . of the estimated 20 billion individual birds that comprise the fall population , only about half will return to breed the following spring . almost one billion of these deaths are attributed just to building collisions .	what proportion of birds that migrate in the fall return to breed the following spring ?	what proportion of birds that migrate in the fall return to breed the following spring ?
although birds face an on-going threat from human land development , there are actions that we can all take to help . many countries and local governements have already passed important laws that restrict the use of poisonous pesticides . by using more natural , plant-based products , we can maintain our farms and gardens without the dangerous side effects .	about how many species of songbirds migrate ?	about how many species of songbirds migrate ?
these mutations may cause the cell to become less specialized and stop performing its original function in the tissue . if this occurs , then there 's a greater chance they 'll develop into cancer cells . while we all have the gene , such as brca1 , that can cause cancer , it 's only when these genes fail at their function that problems develop .	which of the following occurs during the development of cancer ?	which of the following occurs during the development of cancer ?
but , google glass has the vision of allowing us to continue to be in the world but also have access to the digital things that we need and love . now , i am going to ask you a real simple question about google glass : how would you prototype this experience ? how long do you think it would take you to make the first working version of the headset display ?	how long did it take to prototype google glass ?	how long did it take to prototype google glass ?
in fact , with roughly 50 % of the world 's population living within 100 kilometers of the coastline and with most of the remainder living close enough to lakes , rivers , or swamps , all of which ultimately lead to the ocean , virtually every single person on the planet has the opportunity to influence the general health and nature of the world ocean . evidence of human influence is seen in every part of the ocean , no matter how deep , no matter how distant . the ocean defines our planet , but , in a very real sense , we define the ocean .	evidence of human influence is found in what part of the ocean ?	evidence of human influence is found in what part of the ocean ?
some animals , like seabirds , get entangled in the mess . they , and others , mistake the brightly colored plastic bits for food . plastic makes them feel full when they 're not , so they starve to death and pass the toxins from the plastic up the food chain . for example , it 's eaten by lanternfish , the lanternfish are eaten by squid , the squid are eaten by tuna , and the tuna are eaten by us .	what if we tried to remove all of that plastic waste from the sea ? would this be beneficial , and what do you think some of the unexpected consequences might be ?	what if we tried to remove all of that plastic waste from the sea ? would this be beneficial , and what do you think some of the unexpected consequences might be ?
some animals , like seabirds , get entangled in the mess . they , and others , mistake the brightly colored plastic bits for food . plastic makes them feel full when they 're not , so they starve to death and pass the toxins from the plastic up the food chain . for example , it 's eaten by lanternfish , the lanternfish are eaten by squid , the squid are eaten by tuna , and the tuna are eaten by us .	list the ways you could help to reduce plastic waste and its environmental impact .	list the ways you could help to reduce plastic waste and its environmental impact .
to varying degrees , narcissists think they 're better looking , smarter , and more important than other people , and that they deserve special treatment . psychologists recognize two forms of narcissism as a personality trait : grandiose and vulnerable narcissism . there 's also narcissistic personality disorder , a more extreme form , which we 'll return to shortly .	the term narcissism comes from :	the term narcissism comes from :
to varying degrees , narcissists think they 're better looking , smarter , and more important than other people , and that they deserve special treatment . psychologists recognize two forms of narcissism as a personality trait : grandiose and vulnerable narcissism . there 's also narcissistic personality disorder , a more extreme form , which we 'll return to shortly .	grandiose narcissism includes traits like :	grandiose narcissism includes traits like :
to varying degrees , narcissists think they 're better looking , smarter , and more important than other people , and that they deserve special treatment . psychologists recognize two forms of narcissism as a personality trait : grandiose and vulnerable narcissism . there 's also narcissistic personality disorder , a more extreme form , which we 'll return to shortly .	all narcissism is heritable , but grandiose narcissism is linked to ____ parenting whereas vulnerable narcissism is linked to ____ parenting .	all narcissism is heritable , but grandiose narcissism is linked to ____ parenting whereas vulnerable narcissism is linked to ____ parenting .
to varying degrees , narcissists think they 're better looking , smarter , and more important than other people , and that they deserve special treatment . psychologists recognize two forms of narcissism as a personality trait : grandiose and vulnerable narcissism . there 's also narcissistic personality disorder , a more extreme form , which we 'll return to shortly .	do you think grandiose narcissism is generally a good or bad trait in individuals ? why or why not ?	do you think grandiose narcissism is generally a good or bad trait in individuals ? why or why not ?
to varying degrees , narcissists think they 're better looking , smarter , and more important than other people , and that they deserve special treatment . psychologists recognize two forms of narcissism as a personality trait : grandiose and vulnerable narcissism . there 's also narcissistic personality disorder , a more extreme form , which we 'll return to shortly .	can you think of any characters in movies who have high levels of grandiose narcissism ? how about vulnerable narcissism ?	can you think of any characters in movies who have high levels of grandiose narcissism ? how about vulnerable narcissism ?
the whole world watched as a russian rocket launched the first module of the iss into the sky . zarya , meaning sunrise , was equipped with two solar panels and a propulsion system that had the important task of keeping the young station from crashing into the earth by staying a safe 400 kilometers away . the u.s. space shuttle endeavour followed two weeks later carrying unity , a node module to which other modules could be connected , and an international six-person assembly crew .	at 400 km above the earth , the iss is in low-earth orbit where the atmosphere is very thin , but can still drag on the station so that it slows down slightly and gets closer to the earth . what are some other strategies to keep the iss from crashing down to earth ?	at 400 km above the earth , the iss is in low-earth orbit where the atmosphere is very thin , but can still drag on the station so that it slows down slightly and gets closer to the earth . what are some other strategies to keep the iss from crashing down to earth ?
i start with a basic place and time . whether that 's a fantasy world or a futuristic setting in the real world , it 's important to know where you are and whether you 're working in the past , present , or future . i like to create a timeline showing how the world came to be .	why is world building important for futuristic and fantasy novels , and how does the author ’ s work in this area affect the experience of the reader ?	why is world building important for futuristic and fantasy novels , and how does the author ’ s work in this area affect the experience of the reader ?
of the 27,000 known fish species , over a quarter live on coral reefs that make up less than 1 % of the earth 's surface . but prior to settling down in this diverse tropical environment , baby coral reef fish face the difficult process of growing up on their own , undergoing drastic changes , and the journey of a lifetime before they find that reef to call home . the life cycle for most of these fish begins when their parents spew sperm and eggs into the water column . this can happen daily , seasonally , or yearly depending on the species , generally following lunar or seasonal tidal patterns .	which phase of the coral reef fish life cycle is most likely to disperse long distances ?	which phase of the coral reef fish life cycle is most likely to disperse long distances ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby the healthy liver cell divides only when it 's stressed . the healthy hair cell divides frequently .	which is not a step to creating at ted-ed lesson ?	which is not a step to creating at ted-ed lesson ?
i stole the idea from a friend of mine who told me what his father used to share with him . every single night , when i tuck my kids into bed , i tell them these three things : dream big , work hard , and stay humble . so let 's look at them all .	every night as meltzer is tucking his kids into bed , he tells them what three things ?	every night as meltzer is tucking his kids into bed , he tells them what three things ?
so what exactly causes ocd ? the frustrating answer is we do n't really know . however , we have some important clues .	fear of contracting an illness such as hiv from touching public surfaces is referred to as a ( n ) _____ whereas frequently washing your hands in scalding hot water after touching such surfaces is referred to as a ( n ) _____ ?	fear of contracting an illness such as hiv from touching public surfaces is referred to as a ( n ) _____ whereas frequently washing your hands in scalding hot water after touching such surfaces is referred to as a ( n ) _____ ?
but this is n't because the train conductor is practicing for a second career . rather , it 's because of something called the doppler effect where sound waves generated by an approaching object are compressed , while those from a receding object are stretched . but what has this to do with astronomy ?	the effect where sound waves generated by an approaching object are ‘ compressed ’ , while those from a receding object are ‘ stretched ’ , is named after which scientist ?	the effect where sound waves generated by an approaching object are ‘ compressed ’ , while those from a receding object are ‘ stretched ’ , is named after which scientist ?
so a bmg skyscraper or space shuttle would be astronomically expensive . and despite their strength , they 're not yet tough enough for load-bearing applications . when the stresses get high , they can fracture without warning , which is n't ideal for , say , a bridge .	what is currently preventing metallic glasses from being used extensively in load bearing applications ?	what is currently preventing metallic glasses from being used extensively in load bearing applications ?
its familiar profile was achieved through an impressive fire and water process that involved warping the boards with torches made of marsh reeds set ablaze . however , the majority of the 500 hours that went into building a gondola involved the final stages : preparing surfaces and applying successive coats of waterproof varnish . the varnish was a family recipe , as closely guarded as one for risotto or a homemade sauce .	the majority of the 500 hours that went into building a traditional gondola involved :	the majority of the 500 hours that went into building a traditional gondola involved :
and these networks are everywhere . it ’ s estimated that around 90 % of land plants are connected to some kind of mycorrhizal network . so , how can plants use these networks ?	what percentage of land plants are connected to some kind of mycorrhizal network ?	what percentage of land plants are connected to some kind of mycorrhizal network ?
and because program instructions must be processed quickly and continuously , all locations within the short-term memory can be accessed in any order , hence the name random access memory . the most common type of ram is dynamic ram , or dram . there , each memory cell consists of a tiny transistor and a capacitor that store electrical charges , a 0 when there 's no charge , or a 1 when charged .	what is the common feature between dram and sram ?	what is the common feature between dram and sram ?
and today , the process works both ways , with english lending words like software to languages all over the world . another popular way to fill a vocabulary gap is by combining existing words that each convey part of the new concept . this can be done by combining two whole words into a compound word , like airport or starfish , or by clipping and blending parts of words together , like spork , brunch , or internet .	a way to fill-in a conceptual gap in a language is to :	a way to fill-in a conceptual gap in a language is to :
water moving downhill carries the weathered material and erodes the landscape , carving out deep valleys and jagged peaks . this balance between uplift and erosion gives a mountain its shape . but compare the celestial peaks of the himalayas to the comforting hills of appalachia .	weathering and erosion can form a positive feedback loop , which leads in turn to more erosion . explain .	weathering and erosion can form a positive feedback loop , which leads in turn to more erosion . explain .
water moving downhill carries the weathered material and erodes the landscape , carving out deep valleys and jagged peaks . this balance between uplift and erosion gives a mountain its shape . but compare the celestial peaks of the himalayas to the comforting hills of appalachia .	what best gives a mountain its shape ?	what best gives a mountain its shape ?
water moving downhill carries the weathered material and erodes the landscape , carving out deep valleys and jagged peaks . this balance between uplift and erosion gives a mountain its shape . but compare the celestial peaks of the himalayas to the comforting hills of appalachia .	which factor ( s ) , along with time , affect the shape of a mountain ?	which factor ( s ) , along with time , affect the shape of a mountain ?
water moving downhill carries the weathered material and erodes the landscape , carving out deep valleys and jagged peaks . this balance between uplift and erosion gives a mountain its shape . but compare the celestial peaks of the himalayas to the comforting hills of appalachia .	what is the relationship between mountain slope ( or steepness ) and glacial flow ?	what is the relationship between mountain slope ( or steepness ) and glacial flow ?
the full-headed among us have about 100,000 to 150,000 hairs on our scalps , and scientists have discovered two things about this dense thicket . firstly , the sprouting hair we see is mostly made up of keratin , the protein leftover from dead cells that are forced upwards as new cells grow beneath them . secondly , the structures that drive hair growth are called hair follicles , a network of complex organs that forms before we 're born , and grows hair in an everlasting cycle .	what is the name of the leftover protein from dead cells that makes the sprouting hair ?	what is the name of the leftover protein from dead cells that makes the sprouting hair ?
a technology known as linguistic text analysis has helped to identify four such common patterns in the subconscious language of deception . first , liars reference themselves less , when making deceptive statements . they write or talk more about others , often using the third person to distance and disassociate themselves from their lie , which sounds more false : `` absolutely no party took place at this house , '' or `` i did n't host a party here . ''	do liars use more first person or third person pronouns ?	do liars use more first person or third person pronouns ?
the stoics believed that everything around us operates according to a web of cause and effect , resulting in a rational structure of the universe , which they called logos . and while we may not always have control over the events affecting us , we can have control over how we approach things . rather than imagining an ideal society , the stoic tries to deal with the world as it is while pursuing self-improvement through four cardinal virtues : practical wisdom , the ability to navigate complex situations in a logical , informed , and calm manner ; temperance , the exercise of self-restraint and moderation in all aspects of life ; justice , treating others with fairness even when they have done wrong ; and courage , not just in extraordinary circumstances , but facing daily challenges with clarity and integrity .	the stoics distinguished what is under our control from what is not under our control , focusing on the first and ignoring the latter . this means to internalize one 's goals , so that our satisfaction does not depend on things we can not control . can you think of practical examples where this distinction can be usefully applied ?	the stoics distinguished what is under our control from what is not under our control , focusing on the first and ignoring the latter . this means to internalize one 's goals , so that our satisfaction does not depend on things we can not control . can you think of practical examples where this distinction can be usefully applied ?
and in the 14th century during the ming dynasty , the chinese emperor shifted the standard from tea pressed into cakes to loose leaf tea . at that point , china still held a virtual monopoly on the world 's tea trees , making tea one of three essential chinese export goods , along with porcelain and silk . this gave china a great deal of power and economic influence as tea drinking spread around the world .	along with tea , what are the other two essential goods china exported ?	along with tea , what are the other two essential goods china exported ?
during his stay in space , he time traveled into his own future by 0.02 seconds . traveling at 17,500 miles an hour , he experienced an effect known as time dilation , and one day the same effect might make significant time travel to the future commonplace . to see why moving faster through space affects passage of time , we need to go back to the 1880s , when two american scientists , albert michelson and edward morley , were trying to measure the effect of the earth 's movement around the sun on the speed of light .	what effect might make significant time travel to future commonplace one day ?	what effect might make significant time travel to future commonplace one day ?
the birthday problem is just one example where math can show that things that seem impossible , like the same person winning the lottery twice , actually are n't unlikely at all . sometimes coincidences are n't as coincidental as they seem .	the video ends with the statement “ sometimes coincidences aren ’ t as coincidental as they seem. ” explain .	the video ends with the statement “ sometimes coincidences aren ’ t as coincidental as they seem. ” explain .
iloveyou was a type of virus called a worm , which means that it was a standalone program that didn ’ t use a host program to run , the way melissa used microsoft word . it looked like a text document , so opening it seemed relatively harmless , but the “ love letter for you ” file was actually a type of file called a visual basic script , which uses the file extension .vbs . users couldn ’ t see the vbs at the end of the filename , though , because the windows operating system they were using was hiding file extensions by default .	why is the visual basic scripts ( .vbs ) file extension so dangerous ?	why is the visual basic scripts ( .vbs ) file extension so dangerous ?
here . and the alkali metals are very reactive . so , we 've seen that lithium does n't react very much but then as you go to sodium and then to potassium and rubidium the violence of the reaction gets more and more and more .	what is the correct order in increasing atomic radius of alkaline metals ?	what is the correct order in increasing atomic radius of alkaline metals ?
the americans were receiving reports that the british were encouraging tecumseh , which they probably were . and the important thing to remember here is that the war of 1812 , like the seven years war and the american revolution was also a war against indians . and as in those other two wars , the indians were the biggest losers .	what were some of the american successes during the war of 1812 ?	what were some of the american successes during the war of 1812 ?
intro winnie cooper ( character ) : hey kevin , hi paul ! paul ( character ) : winnie cooper ? ! winnie cooper was the girl next door . winnie cooper ( character ) : my real name is gwendolyn .	danica was used to hearing the question : `` are n't you the girl from 'the wonder years ' ? '' what question did she finally hear in college that helped her realize she was more than just winnie cooper ?	danica was used to hearing the question : `` are n't you the girl from 'the wonder years ' ? '' what question did she finally hear in college that helped her realize she was more than just winnie cooper ?
you 've been stranded thousands of miles from home with no money or possessions . such a predicament would make many people despair and curse their awful fate . but for zeno of cyprus , it became the foundation of his life 's work and legacy .	stoicism has many things in common with other philosophical traditions , such as buddhism , taoism , judaism , and christianity . why would that be the case ?	stoicism has many things in common with other philosophical traditions , such as buddhism , taoism , judaism , and christianity . why would that be the case ?
here 's another challenge . a tumor is a dynamic interconnected ecosystem where cancer cells constantly communicate with each other and with healthy cells nearby . they can induce normal cells to form blood vessels that feed the tumor and remove waste products . they can also interact with the immune system to actually suppress its function , keeping it from recognizing or destroying the cancer .	mutation in cells always results in cancerous cells . true or false ?	mutation in cells always results in cancerous cells . true or false ?
[ goproject films ] [ traffic sounds ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i discovered working with tea really by accident . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i spilled the tea on a drawing .	what could be the benefits of performing a ‘ daily ritual ’ when creating art ?	what could be the benefits of performing a ‘ daily ritual ’ when creating art ?
[ goproject films ] [ traffic sounds ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i discovered working with tea really by accident . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i spilled the tea on a drawing .	what do individuals gain from living a creative life ? what does society gain ?	what do individuals gain from living a creative life ? what does society gain ?
they are n't as attracted to each other . distance also plays a role . think back to playing with a magnet .	distance also plays a role in the force of gravity . explain how the force changes with respect to distance .	distance also plays a role in the force of gravity . explain how the force changes with respect to distance .
well , as it turns out , i think it would look something like this . right , so we 'd see this wave of people saying , `` good morning ! '' across the world as they wake up .	according to thorp 's map of people saying good morning , who sleeps until later in the day ?	according to thorp 's map of people saying good morning , who sleeps until later in the day ?
he was safeguarding the young republic from being crushed by the european monarchies . '' `` by overthrowing its government and seizing power himself ? '' `` your honor , as a young and successful military officer , napoléon fully supported the french revolution , and its ideals of liberty , equality , and fraternity .	how did napoleon actually come to power ?	how did napoleon actually come to power ?
he was safeguarding the young republic from being crushed by the european monarchies . '' `` by overthrowing its government and seizing power himself ? '' `` your honor , as a young and successful military officer , napoléon fully supported the french revolution , and its ideals of liberty , equality , and fraternity .	what were the factors that enabled napoleon to rise to power and explained his popularity ?	what were the factors that enabled napoleon to rise to power and explained his popularity ?
we used a tablet and one of the many stop motion apps out there . how do you get from point a to point b ? we started off by taking a bunch of pictures of celeste in place .	which is not an example of “ how to get from point a to point b '' shown in the video ?	which is not an example of “ how to get from point a to point b '' shown in the video ?
if you stumbled upon this living arrangement , you might just think that the whole thing was one organism , that the green photosynthetic bacteria were just a part of the blob that performed one of its life functions , just like your heart is a part of you that performs the function of pumping your blood . this process of cells living together is called endosymbiosis , one organism living inside another . but the endosymbiosis did n't stop there . what would happen if the other bacteria moved in , too ?	endosymbiosis can best be described as :	endosymbiosis can best be described as :
so the expansion of the universe is actually accelerating . something appears to be pushing it , and many scientists believe that something is dark energy , making up over 2/3 of the universe and slowly tearing it apart . our knowledge of the behavior of matter and the precision of our instruments means that simply observing distant stars can tell us more about the universe than we ever thought possible .	we currently believe about two thirds of our universe consists of dark energy , which is slowly tearing it apart . which observations provided the first evidence for dark energy ?	we currently believe about two thirds of our universe consists of dark energy , which is slowly tearing it apart . which observations provided the first evidence for dark energy ?
even if you have forces acting in the same direction with the same magnitude , depending on how they 're oriented , you might see waves or whirls . when force , a vector , is combined with another vector that provides orientation , we have the physical quantity called stress , which is an example of a second order tensor . these tensors are also used outside of video games for all sorts of purposes , including scientific simulations , car designs , and brain imaging .	which of the following descriptions is a vector ?	which of the following descriptions is a vector ?
even if you have forces acting in the same direction with the same magnitude , depending on how they 're oriented , you might see waves or whirls . when force , a vector , is combined with another vector that provides orientation , we have the physical quantity called stress , which is an example of a second order tensor . these tensors are also used outside of video games for all sorts of purposes , including scientific simulations , car designs , and brain imaging .	an example of a second order tensor is a ( n ) :	an example of a second order tensor is a ( n ) :
i want to share with you what i know . tornadoes are rapidly rotating columns of air that form inside storms that connect with the ground via a funnel of cloud . when that happens , they tear across the earth , posing a huge threat to life and property .	a rapidly rotating column of air that forms inside a storm is a :	a rapidly rotating column of air that forms inside a storm is a :
it has a good probability of being in lots of different places . wavelength is essential for quantum physics because an object 's wavelength is related to its momentum , mass times velocity . a fast-moving object has lots of momentum , which corresponds to a very short wavelength .	the wavelength of a quantum object is determined by its :	the wavelength of a quantum object is determined by its :
it has a good probability of being in lots of different places . wavelength is essential for quantum physics because an object 's wavelength is related to its momentum , mass times velocity . a fast-moving object has lots of momentum , which corresponds to a very short wavelength .	for a quantum particle to have a long wavelength , it should have :	for a quantum particle to have a long wavelength , it should have :
ok , fermium , it has absolutely no use as far as anyone knows except that it ’ s extremely radioactive . it ’ s named after enrico fermi who is a well-known physicist . fermi was an italian physicist who in the 1930s was the first person to discover artificial radioactivity .	why is enrico fermi , the scientist after whom this element was named , important in the history of science ?	why is enrico fermi , the scientist after whom this element was named , important in the history of science ?
[ stories from the sea ] [ fish tale my secret life as plankton ] how did i get here ? well , it 's a stranger story than you might think . i came from a world of drifters , a place few humans have ever seen .	a fish narrates this video . how do plankton figure into the fish ’ s story ?	a fish narrates this video . how do plankton figure into the fish ’ s story ?
element 113 is , again , labelled with this new systematic method for the artificial elements . so you have un-un-trium or it might be ununtrium , i don ’ t know , which stands for 113 .	the provisional names for these superheavy elements are based on a code for their atomic number . for example , element 113 is ununtrium ( one-one-three-ium ) . from which two languages is this code made from ?	the provisional names for these superheavy elements are based on a code for their atomic number . for example , element 113 is ununtrium ( one-one-three-ium ) . from which two languages is this code made from ?
again , you 'll want to spray them with bleach afterwards . finally , you can try immersing the seeds in a sulfuric acid solution . make sure you 're wearing protective goggles and gloves any time you work with such a dangerous substance .	what does the method of placing them in acid simulate in nature ?	what does the method of placing them in acid simulate in nature ?
in ancient rome , avis was combined with the latin verb garrire , to talk . the two words together made augur , literally one who talks to birds . figuratively , however , augur was the name given to a specific religious official , a type of soothsayer or prophet , who foretold events by studying the behavior of birds . no major decision was made without the augur 's consultation .	are there any birds that are still considered symbols or forecasters of events ?	are there any birds that are still considered symbols or forecasters of events ?
that core is surrounded by negatively charged particles called electrons . the identity of an atom is determined only by the number of protons in its nucleus . hydrogen is hydrogen because it has just one proton , carbon is carbon because it has six , gold is gold because it has 79 , and so on .	the identity of an atom is determined by ________ .	the identity of an atom is determined by ________ .
google was my friend . ( laughter ) i searched , `` how do i overcome the fear of rejection ? '' i came up with a bunch of psychology articles about where the fear and pain are coming from .	how did jia seek to overcome rejection ?	how did jia seek to overcome rejection ?
sunken relics , ghostly shipwrecks , and lost cities . these are n't just wonders found in fictional adventures . beneath the ocean 's surface , there are ruins where people once roamed and shipwrecks loaded with artifacts from another time .	shipwrecks are found at every depth , but sites like sunken cities are only found within specific zones . what processes play a role in the location of different types of archaeological sites in different zone ?	shipwrecks are found at every depth , but sites like sunken cities are only found within specific zones . what processes play a role in the location of different types of archaeological sites in different zone ?
dermal cells , however , remain in place until they die . when they do , they are taken up , ink and all , by younger cells nearby , so the ink stays where it is . but with time , tattoos do fade naturally as the body reacts to the alien pigment particles , slowly breaking them down to be carried off by the immune system 's macrophages .	tattooing can be permanent if the ink particles get trapped in which layer ?	tattooing can be permanent if the ink particles get trapped in which layer ?
there 's no dishonor in having a disability , and i wo n't let anyone diss my ability , but i do n't want anyone 's pity either . i will not use the obstacles i face as an excuse for having a pity party . i will practice harder , play harder , and push myself harder to keep getting better .	according to steven , the best way to deal with an obstacle is to throw a pity party .	according to steven , the best way to deal with an obstacle is to throw a pity party .
by taking measurements on board a flying balloon during an eclipse , hess demonstrated both that the radiation actually increased at greater altitudes and that the sun could not be its source . the startling conclusion was that it was n't coming from anywhere within the earth 's atmosphere but from outer space . our universe is composed of many astronomical objects .	why is a.m.s . located in space outside of the atmosphere ?	why is a.m.s . located in space outside of the atmosphere ?
the story is that he stayed up 3 days and 3 nights , and he finally fell into a deep sleep and he dreamed about a table to order the elements . mendeleev was not only able to create the periodic table , but he was able to predict elements that were not yet discovered . the puzzle of the periodic table of the elements was solved .	it is said that some chemists were able to predict the existence of some elements that were not yet discovered . how did they do this ?	it is said that some chemists were able to predict the existence of some elements that were not yet discovered . how did they do this ?
if we ’ d had more time to study it , maybe we could have learned more about how it turns off stomach acid production , potentially revealing some insights that could help humans with gi problems . consequently , back in 2013 , some scientists began a project to resurrect the gastric-brooding frog . they took cells from a frozen specimen , cloned the dna into the egg of another frog species , and ended up creating a living gastric-brooding frog embryo .	what is the goal of the lazarus project ?	what is the goal of the lazarus project ?
the first , which stores energy from the sun in the form of adenosine triphosphate , or atp . and the second , the calvin cycle , that captures carbon and turns it into sugar . this second phase represents one of nature 's most sustainable production lines .	which of the following statements is true about the calvin cycle ?	which of the following statements is true about the calvin cycle ?
the first , which stores energy from the sun in the form of adenosine triphosphate , or atp . and the second , the calvin cycle , that captures carbon and turns it into sugar . this second phase represents one of nature 's most sustainable production lines .	the correct sequence for reactants in the calvin cycle is :	the correct sequence for reactants in the calvin cycle is :
well , the answer is explained by newton 's second law . in mathematical terms , newton 's second law says that force is the product of mass times acceleration . to cause an object to accelerate , or speed up , a force must be applied .	force is the product of	force is the product of
it 's a big ask and helps to explain why so many of us have career crises often on a sunday evening as the sun begins to set . to help us on the quest for fulfilling work here are six useful ideas : firstly , accept the being confused about careers is perfectly normal . in a pre-industrial world there were , at most , some 2,000 different trades out there ; nowadays there ' are estimated to be half a million different options .	briefly describe the 6 ideas outlined in this video about finding fulfilling work .	briefly describe the 6 ideas outlined in this video about finding fulfilling work .
but since the world has changed a bit in the last several thousand years , it helps to have some background before jumping in . the `` odyssey '' itself is a sequel to homer 's other famous epic , the `` iliad , '' which tells the story of the trojan war . if there 's one major theme uniting both poems , it 's this : do not , under any circumstances , incur the wrath of the gods .	which of the following themes unites both `` iliad '' and `` odyssey '' ?	which of the following themes unites both `` iliad '' and `` odyssey '' ?
instead of articles interpreting a scientific study or a politician 's speech , you can often find the actual material and judge for yourself . for current events , follow reporters on social media . during major events , such as the arab spring or the ukrainian protests , newscasters and bloggers have posted updates and recordings from the midst of the chaos .	how can you verify a story before you share it on social media ?	how can you verify a story before you share it on social media ?
the tubes empty their contents into the bladder to be discharged , ridding your body of that waste once and for all . there 's water in that urine , too . if the kidney detects too much of it in your blood , for instance , when you 've chugged several glasses at once , it sends the extra liquid to the bladder to be removed .	the color of your urine may vary throughout the day . from a kidney ’ s perspective , explain how this happens . how can it be prevented ?	the color of your urine may vary throughout the day . from a kidney ’ s perspective , explain how this happens . how can it be prevented ?
homer 's `` odyssey '' , one of the oldest works of western literature , recounts the adventures of the greek hero odysseus during his ten-year journey home from the trojan war . though some parts may be based on real events , the encounters with strange monsters , terrifying giants and powerful magicians are considered to be complete fiction .	how do the writings of the greek scholar theophrastus help us to make sense of the `` odyssey '' ?	how do the writings of the greek scholar theophrastus help us to make sense of the `` odyssey '' ?
how do you really know you exist ? in his `` meditations on first philosophy , '' rené descartes tried to answer that very question , demolishing all his preconceived notions and opinions to begin again from the foundations . all his knowledge had come from his sensory perceptions of the world .	rené descartes raised what significant philosophical question , outlined in this lesson ?	rené descartes raised what significant philosophical question , outlined in this lesson ?
the sentence ? live burial . the underground chamber contains a portion of bread , water , milk , and oil .	live burial was a very extreme punishment that a vestal virgin faced if she was found guilty of incestum ( unchastity ) . why do you think the ancient romans were so severe in cases like this ? what might it suggest about what the ancient romans valued ?	live burial was a very extreme punishment that a vestal virgin faced if she was found guilty of incestum ( unchastity ) . why do you think the ancient romans were so severe in cases like this ? what might it suggest about what the ancient romans valued ?
like the other organs in our bodies , our brains also benefit from a steady supply of micronutrients . antioxidants in fruits and vegetables strengthen the brain to fight off free radicals that destroy brain cells , enabling your brain to work well for a longer period of time . and without powerful micronutrients , like the vitamins b6 , b12 , and folic acid , our brains would be susceptible to brain disease and mental decline .	what do antioxidants do ?	what do antioxidants do ?
the other girl is my little sister . my little sister was only 11 years old when she got pregnant . it 's a hurtful thing .	how old was memory ’ s sister when she got pregnant ?	how old was memory ’ s sister when she got pregnant ?
sadness , as opposed to anger or violence , was an expression of suffering that could immediately bring people closer to the suffering person , and this helped both the person and the larger community to thrive . perhaps sadness helped generate the unity we needed to survive , but many have wondered whether the suffering felt by others is anything like the suffering we experience ourselves . the poet emily dickinson wrote , `` i measure every grief i meet with narrow , probing eyes - i wonder if it weighs like mine - or has an easier size . ''	the video presents many different opinions on the value of suffering . what are some of the differing opinions ?	the video presents many different opinions on the value of suffering . what are some of the differing opinions ?
so , if you were to fly straight up too quickly , the inert gas in your body would rapidly expand the way soda fizzes up when shaken . the phenomenon is called `` the bends , '' decompression sickness , or `` divers disease '' since deep sea scuba divers experience this when they come up too quickly . this results in pain , paralysis , or death , depending on how foamy your blood becomes .	please use the ideal gas law to explain what happens to deep-sea scuba divers when they come up to the surface too fast .	please use the ideal gas law to explain what happens to deep-sea scuba divers when they come up to the surface too fast .
against all odds , these orphans demonstrate incredible resilience and readiness to learn . in malay , the word orangutan translates literally to `` the person of the forest , '' a reminder of our common lineage . and despite orangutans being some of the smartest animals on earth , outsmarting their extinction requires the creativity , empathy , and foresight that our species share .	in malay , what does the word orangutan translate literally to ?	in malay , what does the word orangutan translate literally to ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby mysteries of vernacular : window , an opening constructed in a wall to emit light or air . when the scandinavian settlers invaded england in the middle ages , they brought with them a whole slew of words whose modern descendants have become part of our everyday vernacular . their word for window was related to the old norse word for the same architectural feature , vindauga . vindauga was a compound , composed of two separate words : vindr , meaning wind and auga , meaning eye . the word vindauga was probably quite old , having come into being long before windows were made of glass .	the scandinavians brought a slew of words to england in the middle ages . one was the combination of two words which came to mean window . the word they brought was vindauga . what does the last part of the word ( auga ) mean ?	the scandinavians brought a slew of words to england in the middle ages . one was the combination of two words which came to mean window . the word they brought was vindauga . what does the last part of the word ( auga ) mean ?
so in the bottom we see neon and this is a small glass discharge tube which has got a very low pressure of neon inside it . it ’ s generally used for lots of signs and things like that . you might see ‘ fish and chips ’ or perhaps a ‘ disco ’ or something like that .	what is the name of the instrument pete used to see the emission spectrum of excited neon ?	what is the name of the instrument pete used to see the emission spectrum of excited neon ?
the key to understanding what that means lies with the term refraction , the ability of a transparent medium , like glass , water , or the eye to change the direction of light passing through it . the eye has two main refractive surfaces : the cornea and the lens . ideally , these surfaces work together to refract light in a way that accurately focuses light onto the retina , the layer of light-sensitive tissue at the back of the eye that works with the brain to give rise to vision . but many people develop refractive errors , either during childhood as their eyes are growing , or in later life as their eyes age .	how do the cornea and the lens of the eye differ in the way they refract light so that it focuses on the retina ?	how do the cornea and the lens of the eye differ in the way they refract light so that it focuses on the retina ?
elements like oxygen and fluorine really , really want electrons , while elements like hydrogen and lithium do n't attract them as strongly . an atom 's relative greed for electrons is called its electronegativity . electrons are moving around all the time and can easily relocate to wherever they 're wanted most .	an atom 's electronegativity is its _____ .	an atom 's electronegativity is its _____ .
or is there some non-physical part of you that 's pulling the strings but could live outside of your biological body ? that would be a mind with a body . that takes us to an old question of whether the body and mind are two separate things . in a famous thought experiment , 16th-century philosopher rené descartes pointed out that even if all our physical sensations were just a hallucinatory dream , our mind and thoughts would still be there . that , for him , was the ultimate proof of our existence .	sixteenth-century philosopher rené descartes believed that the mind is something separate from the body because :	sixteenth-century philosopher rené descartes believed that the mind is something separate from the body because :
his buddy marwood followed him up , and the two young men free climbed high into the redwood 's crown . stephen came across lichens like grandma poe had shown him as a boy . he noticed that the higher he went , the thicker the branches were , not the case with most trees .	during visits to their grandparent ’ s cabin , what did grandma poe teach stephen and scott sillett ?	during visits to their grandparent ’ s cabin , what did grandma poe teach stephen and scott sillett ?
so , how did a hawaiian word come to describe a non-hawaiian instrument ? back in the late 1800s , king kalākaua was the last reigning king of the kingdom of hawaii . he was nicknamed `` the merry monarch '' because of his joy for life and , in particular , his love of music .	king kalākaua ’ s sister , liliʻuokalani , inherited the throne when he died and was the last monarch of the kingdom of hawaii . when and why did her reign end ?	king kalākaua ’ s sister , liliʻuokalani , inherited the throne when he died and was the last monarch of the kingdom of hawaii . when and why did her reign end ?
well , good luck ! at least 99.9 % of creatures that have ever lived are n't preserved in the fossil record . but forget about them , everyone else will , and listen up !	which of the following is least likely to becoming a fossil ?	which of the following is least likely to becoming a fossil ?
once in a new country , the first legal step for a displaced person is to apply for asylum . at this point , they are an asylum seeker and not officially recognized as a refugee until the application has been accepted . while countries by and large agree on one definition of refugee , every host country is responsible for examining all requests for asylum and deciding whether applicants can be granted the status of refugee .	an asylum seeker is :	an asylum seeker is :
so , this is a version of what happens in real life and this another version of what happens in real life all the time . in fact , cartoonists know about this . they put these blur lines in their cartoons and it means to your brain : motion . now , it 's not that in real life you see blur lines . the point is that it 's the stimulus at the back of your eye that has these optic blurs in them , and that 's what tells your brain that you 're moving .	why do cartoonists add blur lines behind a flying superhero ?	why do cartoonists add blur lines behind a flying superhero ?
this kind of mathematical oversight is simply irresponsible . sincerely , vi hart .	what is vi hart 's rant all about ?	what is vi hart 's rant all about ?
this is another aptly named protein , and we 'll get to why in just a second . risc strips these small chunks of double-stranded rna in half , using the single strand to target matching mrna , looking for pieces that fit together like two halves of a sandwich . when it finds the matching piece of mrna , risc 's slicer protein slices it up .	risc uses the small , single stranded piece of rna to :	risc uses the small , single stranded piece of rna to :
in the metric system , work and energy are measured in joules . as an example , let 's take a beautiful , old , mechanical grandfather clock . we transfer energy into the clock when we turn the crank to raise the heavy metal cylinders inside the clock . when we do this , we are doing positive work , adding energy to the clock , and that energy is stored as gravitational potential energy .	if you were to raise the metal weights in a grandfather clock 0.75 meters , and they weighed 250 newtons , how may joules would it take ?	if you were to raise the metal weights in a grandfather clock 0.75 meters , and they weighed 250 newtons , how may joules would it take ?
or perhaps uploading our consciousness into a computer might not even be possible unless we can also simulate a body capable of delivering physical sensations . the idea that our bodies are part of our consciousness and vice versa also is n't new . it 's found extensively in buddhist thought , as well as the writings of philosophers from heidegger to aristotle .	which of the following philosophers believed in the idea that the body is part of the human consciousness ?	which of the following philosophers believed in the idea that the body is part of the human consciousness ?
researchers are also searching for the genes involved in itching and developing treatments to try and block the pathway of an itch in extreme cases . if having an unscratchable itch feels like your own personal hell , dante agreed . the italian poet wrote about a section of hell where people were punished by being left in pits to itch for all eternity .	what do you think it is about the itch that so inspired people like dante to write about it ?	what do you think it is about the itch that so inspired people like dante to write about it ?
so when your bicycle is stopped , it stays stopped , and when it is going , it stays going . objects in motion tend to stay in motion and objects at rest tend to stay at rest . that 's newton 's first law .	newton ’ s second law is often described as f = ma but this is misleading and does not describe what happens when multiple forces act . for this reason , a more accurate description is that the sum of all the forces acting on a single object equals mass times acceleration ; or fnet = ma . forces which act in the same direction on a single object add together while forces which act in opposite directions subtract . explain why , if objects in motion stay in motion and objects at rest stay at rest as mentioned in the talk , your bicycle eventually comes to a stop when you stop pedaling . hint : which forces are responsible for stopping you ?	newton ’ s second law is often described as f = ma but this is misleading and does not describe what happens when multiple forces act . for this reason , a more accurate description is that the sum of all the forces acting on a single object equals mass times acceleration ; or fnet = ma . forces which act in the same direction on a single object add together while forces which act in opposite directions subtract . explain why , if objects in motion stay in motion and objects at rest stay at rest as mentioned in the talk , your bicycle eventually comes to a stop when you stop pedaling . hint : which forces are responsible for stopping you ?
there 's an art to a good square : it should be neither too big nor too small , anything over 30 meters in diameter starts become too large by which we mean : the individual become overly small relative to the space around them , creating a sense of alienation and dislocation . in a good square you should be able to see the face of a person across the square , you could if need be hail someone walking on the other side . the ideal square must offer a feeling of containment , but not claustrophobia . there 's another principle of good cities to do with orientation and mystery . by definition , cities are huge , but the cities that a lot of people love also have lots of little back streets and small lanes where you can feel cozy and get a bit lost .	the video recommended that a good city should have a square . what was the approximate diameter for a good square ?	the video recommended that a good city should have a square . what was the approximate diameter for a good square ?
the offspring of the brown color morphs , on the other hand , have an advantage in exposed forests , so brown tawny owls are flourishing today . several other species have undergone similar climate-change-adaptive genetic changes in recent decades . pitcher plant mosquitoes have rapidly evolved to take advantage of the warmer temperatures , entering dormancy later and later in the year .	how do you think “ plastic ” , or non-heritable , changes like those listed in the lesson ( changing body sizes , breeding seasons , or flowering dates ) could help organisms adapt to climate change ? how do you think they may be limited ?	how do you think “ plastic ” , or non-heritable , changes like those listed in the lesson ( changing body sizes , breeding seasons , or flowering dates ) could help organisms adapt to climate change ? how do you think they may be limited ?
they 've traveled to outer space . telomerase , an enzyme that helps cancer cells evade destruction by repairing their dna , was discovered first in hela cells . in an interesting turn of fate , thanks to hela , we know that cervical cancer can be caused by a virus called hpv and now there 's a vaccine . hela-fueled discoveries have filled thousands of scientific papers , and that number is probably even higher than anyone knows .	research with hela cells lead to a vaccine for _____ , which likely caused henrietta ’ s cancer .	research with hela cells lead to a vaccine for _____ , which likely caused henrietta ’ s cancer .
like whales and porpoises , dolphins belong to the group of aquatic mammals known as cetaceans who comprise 86 different species , and share a common link with ungulates , or hoofed animals . originally land mammals , the first cetaceans entered the water about 55 million years ago as large predators with sharp teeth . then , a shift in ocean temperatures about 35 million years ago reduced the availability of prey .	cetaceans are descended from land mammals who :	cetaceans are descended from land mammals who :
and when the rooms were damp , victorians didn ’ t like opening the windows in their rooms , then mould would grow on the wall . and because arsenic is poisonous to most life forms the mould would convert the arsenic into a volatile compound , trimethylarsine , and the trimethylarsine went into the air and several people were killed by the arsenic coming from their wall paper . now arsenic as we know is very toxic and there have been a number of very high profile and very famous cases of people that have poisoned perhaps their partners or their business partners using arsenic .	people in the 19th century were sometimes killed by a volatile compound of arsenic . it was a product of the metabolism of the mold in the wallpapers painted with paris green . what is this poisonous compound ?	people in the 19th century were sometimes killed by a volatile compound of arsenic . it was a product of the metabolism of the mold in the wallpapers painted with paris green . what is this poisonous compound ?
and when the rooms were damp , victorians didn ’ t like opening the windows in their rooms , then mould would grow on the wall . and because arsenic is poisonous to most life forms the mould would convert the arsenic into a volatile compound , trimethylarsine , and the trimethylarsine went into the air and several people were killed by the arsenic coming from their wall paper . now arsenic as we know is very toxic and there have been a number of very high profile and very famous cases of people that have poisoned perhaps their partners or their business partners using arsenic .	arsenic is notoriously poisonous to almost all forms of known life , but what type of organisms are able to use arsenic compounds as metabolites ?	arsenic is notoriously poisonous to almost all forms of known life , but what type of organisms are able to use arsenic compounds as metabolites ?
in fact , the word rhapsode means stitching together , as these poets combined existing stories , jokes , myths , and songs into a single narrative . to recite these massive epics live , rhapsodes employed a steady meter , along with mnemonic devices , like repetition of memorized passages or set pieces . these included descriptions of scenery and lists of characters , and helped the rhapsode keep their place in the narrative , just as the chorus or bridge of a song helps us to remember the next verses .	which of the following elements helped the rhapsodes remember and recite the poem ?	which of the following elements helped the rhapsodes remember and recite the poem ?
yeah so neodymium is one my favourite f elements to work with . when you use it in compounds and you dissolve it , often you get colourful blue solutions from it .	as stephen explained , which two elements do we need to combine with neodymium to make permanently strong magnets ?	as stephen explained , which two elements do we need to combine with neodymium to make permanently strong magnets ?
so chemists are very , and physicists are very lucky if they just make a few atoms of this . so there ’ s nothing to tell you about the uses of lawrencium , because nobody ’ s made enough lawrencium to use it for anything , except as the subject of scientific papers and physical measurements . so instead i want to show you here a piece of equipment which is very similar to the sort of equipment that lawrence used when he was doing his pioneering work in berkeley , california , close to san francisco .	lawrencium is a radioactive element and all of its isotopes are unstable . what is the half-life of the longest-lived lawrencium isotope ?	lawrencium is a radioactive element and all of its isotopes are unstable . what is the half-life of the longest-lived lawrencium isotope ?
so chemists are very , and physicists are very lucky if they just make a few atoms of this . so there ’ s nothing to tell you about the uses of lawrencium , because nobody ’ s made enough lawrencium to use it for anything , except as the subject of scientific papers and physical measurements . so instead i want to show you here a piece of equipment which is very similar to the sort of equipment that lawrence used when he was doing his pioneering work in berkeley , california , close to san francisco .	how many electrons does a lawrencium atom have in its outermost shell ?	how many electrons does a lawrencium atom have in its outermost shell ?
electrons bumble down the wire , about the speed of spreading honey , they say . galaxies -- hundred billion of them , estimated in the universe . hundred billion .	according to lloyd , there are an estimated 100 billion galaxies in the known universe , but we can only see :	according to lloyd , there are an estimated 100 billion galaxies in the known universe , but we can only see :
but then one morning we find ourselves filled with inexplicable anger towards our partner , or running high with unrelenting anxiety on the train to work , and we ’ re reminded all over again just how elusive , difficult , and freudian our mental workings actually are . we could still reject his work , of course . but as freud said , “ no one who disdains the key will ever be able to unlock the door. ” we could all use a bit more of freud ’ s ideas to help us unpick ourselves .	how was psychoanalysis meant to work ?	how was psychoanalysis meant to work ?
for example , the human retina is inverted , with light-detecting cells facing away from the eye opening . this results in a blind spot , where the optic nerve must pierce the retina to reach the photosensitive layer in the back . the similar looking eyes of cephalopods , which evolved independently , have a front-facing retina , allowing them to see without a blind spot . other creatures ' eyes display different adaptations .	what is the explanation for our blind spot ?	what is the explanation for our blind spot ?
laws usually resist change since they would n't have been adopted if they did n't fit the data , though we occasionally revise laws in the face of new unexpected information . a theory 's acceptance , however , is often gladiatorial . multiple theories may compete to supply the best explanation of a new scientific discovery . upon further research , scientists tend to favor the theory that can explain most of the data , though there may still be gaps in our understanding . scientists also like when a new theory successfully predicts previously unobserved phenomena , like when dmitri mendeleev 's theory about the periodic table predicted several undiscovered elements .	before louis pasteur , people did not seriously think that tiny microbes could have much of an effect on the 'big-sized ' world of people . louis pasteur challenged the theories of his time when he used microbes to explain how food was spoiling in factories . research at least one new advance that was possible once people accepted that his theory was correct .	before louis pasteur , people did not seriously think that tiny microbes could have much of an effect on the 'big-sized ' world of people . louis pasteur challenged the theories of his time when he used microbes to explain how food was spoiling in factories . research at least one new advance that was possible once people accepted that his theory was correct .
each symbol was repeated as many times as necessary and all were added together . roman numerals added another twist . if a numeral appeared before one with a higher value , it would be subtracted rather than added .	what innovation did the roman numerals use ?	what innovation did the roman numerals use ?
with a steady beat as a foundation , we can add rhythm to our pitches , and that 's when music really starts to happen . this is a quarter note . it 's the most basic unit of rhythm , and it 's worth one beat .	a quarter note is worth :	a quarter note is worth :
while flying , birds can lose almost one percent of their body weight an hour , so packing on the pounds is crucial to their survival . however , more than the physical stress , migrating birds are now facing a new source of hardship : landscape change . just imagine you 're the one getting ready to take a trip .	while migration is very physically demanding , birds face additional hardship due to human induced landscape change . what are some of the obstacles that birds may come across during their journey ? what can you do to help ?	while migration is very physically demanding , birds face additional hardship due to human induced landscape change . what are some of the obstacles that birds may come across during their journey ? what can you do to help ?
however , for some animals , the question of whether it will be a boy or a girl has nothing to do with genes at all , and it can depend on something like the weather . these are animals like alligators and most turtles . in these animals , the sex of an embryo in a developing egg is determined by the temperature .	one of the advantages of asexual reproduction , like we see in the whiptail lizards , is that no energy is expended to find a mate . however , some animals like rotifers ( microscopic aquatic animals ) use asexual reproduction or sexual reproduction depending on which form of reproduction the environmental conditions favor at the moment . which environmental conditions do you think would favor asexual reproduction ? which environmental conditions do you think would favor sexual reproduction ?	one of the advantages of asexual reproduction , like we see in the whiptail lizards , is that no energy is expended to find a mate . however , some animals like rotifers ( microscopic aquatic animals ) use asexual reproduction or sexual reproduction depending on which form of reproduction the environmental conditions favor at the moment . which environmental conditions do you think would favor asexual reproduction ? which environmental conditions do you think would favor sexual reproduction ?
( music ) i want everyone to put their hands on top of their head . yeah , yeah , yeah .	how would you describe the tone of this piece ? does it change ?	how would you describe the tone of this piece ? does it change ?
( music ) i want everyone to put their hands on top of their head . yeah , yeah , yeah .	in doing so , lissaint is careful to appropriate the language of an actual robbery , as in	in doing so , lissaint is careful to appropriate the language of an actual robbery , as in
( music ) i want everyone to put their hands on top of their head . yeah , yeah , yeah .	lissaint ’ s performance includes historical references to	lissaint ’ s performance includes historical references to
it ’ s really quite beautiful . a compound of silicon , silicon nitride is extremely tough and very light so it ’ s very difficult to break and silicon nitride for example is used in the impellers in turbo chargers in cars . so when you put your foot down on the accelerator it will spin up very fast because it is very light but it is very strong so it won ’ t very suddenly fall to bits as it is revving up inside your engine .	if you go to the beach on a hot summer ’ s day , where can you find large amounts of silicon compounds ?	if you go to the beach on a hot summer ’ s day , where can you find large amounts of silicon compounds ?
it ’ s really quite beautiful . a compound of silicon , silicon nitride is extremely tough and very light so it ’ s very difficult to break and silicon nitride for example is used in the impellers in turbo chargers in cars . so when you put your foot down on the accelerator it will spin up very fast because it is very light but it is very strong so it won ’ t very suddenly fall to bits as it is revving up inside your engine .	which of these daily objects contains silicon atoms ?	which of these daily objects contains silicon atoms ?
malignant cells in ovarian cancer , for example , spread through peritoneum , which connects the ovary to the liver , resulting in metastasis on the liver surface . next , cancerous cells invade blood vessels when they undergo hematogenous spread . as there are blood vessels almost everywhere in the body , malignant cells utilize this to reach more distant parts of the body .	in which of these mechanisms of spread can the cancer cell also metastasize to the blood ?	in which of these mechanisms of spread can the cancer cell also metastasize to the blood ?
but it was not always this way . in 1789 , george washington won the electoral college with 100 % of the vote , but whose vote was it ? probably not yours .	who won the electoral college with 100 % of the votes in 1789 ?	who won the electoral college with 100 % of the votes in 1789 ?
the ingredients in your blood are constantly changing as you ingest food and drink , which explains why the kidneys need to be on permanent duty . blood enters each kidney through arteries that branch and branch , until they form tiny vessels that entwine with special internal modules , called nephrons . in each kidney , 1 million of these nephrons form a powerful array of filters and sensors that carefully sift through the blood .	the internal modules of the kidneys are called the _____	the internal modules of the kidneys are called the _____
this is because the air expands in volume with less pressure , so the molecules have more room to wander around without colliding into each other and creating heat . since the atmospheric pressure is a lot lower in high altitudes , it would be freezing cold if you were flying above the clouds . you 'd need to wrap yourself up to keep your core body temperature above 95 degrees fahrenheit , otherwise you 'd start shivering violently , gradually becoming mentally confused and eventually drop out of the sky due to loss of muscle control from hypothermia !	please compare and contrast the air in extremely high and low altitudes in as many ways as you can .	please compare and contrast the air in extremely high and low altitudes in as many ways as you can .
or the nerve 's target may be another organ , such as a muscle . when the electrical impulse reaches the end of the nerve , small vesicles , or packets , containing chemical neurotransmitters , are released by the nerve and rapidly interact with the nerve 's target . this process is called synaptic transmission , because the connection between the nerve and the next object in the chain is called a synapse .	when the electrical impulse reaches the end of the nerve , small vesicles containing chemical neurotransmitters are released by the nerve and rapidly interact with the nerve ’ s target . this process is called :	when the electrical impulse reaches the end of the nerve , small vesicles containing chemical neurotransmitters are released by the nerve and rapidly interact with the nerve ’ s target . this process is called :
consider the following set of operations on a number . take some number that you 're thinking of , multiply it by two , subtract one from the result , multiply the result of that by itself , divide the result of that by three , and then add one to get the final output . without our symbols and conventions , we 'd be faced with this block of text .	what is one of the main reasons mathematicians give for introducing new notation ?	what is one of the main reasons mathematicians give for introducing new notation ?
long before epic fireworks displays , chemists in china invented the key ingredient that propels those bright lights into the sky . that invention was what we now call gunpowder . our story begins back in ancient china in the mid-ninth century where early chinese alchemists were trying to create a potion for immortality . instead , what they created was a flammable powder that burned down many of their homes .	during which century did chinese alchemists discover gunpowder ?	during which century did chinese alchemists discover gunpowder ?
today , these dances continue to evolve , grow and spread . why do we dance ? to move , to let loose , to express .	the cakewalk dance became wildly popular in the late nineteenth century . why was this ironic yet empowering at the same time ?	the cakewalk dance became wildly popular in the late nineteenth century . why was this ironic yet empowering at the same time ?
any leftover neurotransmitter usually gets degraded or reabsorbed into the transmitting neuron . a drug 's effectiveness stems from its ability to manipulate these synaptic transmissions at different phases of the process . that results in an increase or a decrease in the amount of neurotransmitters being spread .	given the complex effect that a single drug can have on different neurotransmitters , try to imagine the consequences resulting from the interaction of multiple drugs .	given the complex effect that a single drug can have on different neurotransmitters , try to imagine the consequences resulting from the interaction of multiple drugs .
well , astronomers can now watch asteroids in space and see them coming using complex computer models to predict the deadly rock 's path . for a while , the reported odds that asteroid apophis would strike earth in 2036 were once 1 in 625 . but , after updating their data , astronomers now say the chances are extremely low .	what do some people believe may strike earth in 2036 ?	what do some people believe may strike earth in 2036 ?
well , astronomers can now watch asteroids in space and see them coming using complex computer models to predict the deadly rock 's path . for a while , the reported odds that asteroid apophis would strike earth in 2036 were once 1 in 625 . but , after updating their data , astronomers now say the chances are extremely low .	design methods you believe could protect earth from asteroid impacts . justify your choice ( s ) .	design methods you believe could protect earth from asteroid impacts . justify your choice ( s ) .
during world war ii , china used sections for defense against japanese invasion , and some parts are still rumored to be used for military training . but the wall 's main purpose today is cultural . as one of the largest man-made structures on earth , it was granted unesco world heritage status in 1987 .	what purpose has the great wall held throughout chinese past and present ?	what purpose has the great wall held throughout chinese past and present ?
many years later , renowned physicist stephen hawking said that it was a mistake to give an alien species a roadmap to our planet . hawking suspected that any extraterrestrial life probably was n't any more complex than microbes , but he warned that if an advanced alien species did visit earth , it could be as catastrophic as christopher columbus 's arrival was for the native americans . meanwhile , the golden records continue their journeys .	renowned astrophysicist stephen hawking expressed concern that any extraterrestrial life that found earth might result in ___________ for humanity , as christopher columbus ’ arrival signaled for native americans .	renowned astrophysicist stephen hawking expressed concern that any extraterrestrial life that found earth might result in ___________ for humanity , as christopher columbus ’ arrival signaled for native americans .
beriah green was fiercely devoted to abolition before it was popular because he believed it was the right thing to do . and then there 's abraham lincoln . you know he was president during the civil war .	what virtue did president lincoln demonstrate by his ability keeping the union together ?	what virtue did president lincoln demonstrate by his ability keeping the union together ?
each interpreted the text with no knowledge of what the others were creating here 's the result . `` a noiseless patient spider '' by walt whitman interpretation # 1 by jeremiah dickey , medium : paint on glass `` a noiseless patient spider , i mark 'd where on a little promontory it stood isolated , mark 'd how to explore the vacant vast surrounding , it launch 'd forth filament , filament , filament , out of itself , ever unreeling them , ever tirelessly speeding them . and you o my soul where you stand , surrounded , detached , in measureless oceans of space , ceaselessly musing , venturing , throwing , seeking the spheres to connect them , till the bridge you will need be form 'd , till the ductile anchor hold , till the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere , o my soul . ''	what specific words or phrases does walt whitman use to personify the spider and thus create a metaphor between the spider and the soul ?	what specific words or phrases does walt whitman use to personify the spider and thus create a metaphor between the spider and the soul ?
the thermite reaction which is the reaction of aluminium and iron oxide is used to make iron and because aluminium has much stronger bonds to oxygen than iron that the reaction produces an enormous amount of heat and you can use this for welding pieces of metals together . so this is a thermite mixture , it is a mixture of iron oxide and aluminium powder and we are going to do some redox chemistry and we are going to generate some molten iron which will hopefully stream from the bottom of the flower pot .	which are the products of the exothermic thermite reaction ?	which are the products of the exothermic thermite reaction ?
the thermite reaction which is the reaction of aluminium and iron oxide is used to make iron and because aluminium has much stronger bonds to oxygen than iron that the reaction produces an enormous amount of heat and you can use this for welding pieces of metals together . so this is a thermite mixture , it is a mixture of iron oxide and aluminium powder and we are going to do some redox chemistry and we are going to generate some molten iron which will hopefully stream from the bottom of the flower pot .	which compound did the professor encounter during his introduction to chemistry ? it was produced by the reaction between iron and sulfur and then , it was to used to react with hydrochloric acid , releasing smelly hydrogen sulfide .	which compound did the professor encounter during his introduction to chemistry ? it was produced by the reaction between iron and sulfur and then , it was to used to react with hydrochloric acid , releasing smelly hydrogen sulfide .
without those genetic instructions , she now ca n't sense green light and is color blind . disorders that are associated with mutations of x chromosome genes , like color blindness , or hemophilia , are often less severe in individuals with two x chromosomes . that 's because in someone with one normal and one mutant copy of the gene , only some of their cells would be affected by the mutation .	diseases that are caused by mutations on the x chromosome , like hemophilia , are often less severe in individuals with two x chromosomes . why are these diseases more severe in xy individuals ?	diseases that are caused by mutations on the x chromosome , like hemophilia , are often less severe in individuals with two x chromosomes . why are these diseases more severe in xy individuals ?
simply identify the two atria and cut them off , trimming them down to the tops of the ventricles . this makes the heart look less complicated because the atria have several incoming veins attached . so without them there , the only vessels remaining are the two major heart arteries : the aorta and pulmonary artery , which rise like white columns from between the ventricles .	when the heart is working inside the body , the job of the atria is to ________ .	when the heart is working inside the body , the job of the atria is to ________ .
simply identify the two atria and cut them off , trimming them down to the tops of the ventricles . this makes the heart look less complicated because the atria have several incoming veins attached . so without them there , the only vessels remaining are the two major heart arteries : the aorta and pulmonary artery , which rise like white columns from between the ventricles .	in leonardo da vinci ’ s time , nobody knew that the arteries were joined to the veins by tiny , invisible capillaries . this means that even though he studied the heart in detail , he thought that the arteries and veins were dead ends . why did this make it difficult for him to understand how the heart worked ?	in leonardo da vinci ’ s time , nobody knew that the arteries were joined to the veins by tiny , invisible capillaries . this means that even though he studied the heart in detail , he thought that the arteries and veins were dead ends . why did this make it difficult for him to understand how the heart worked ?
but thanks to something called grammatical aspect , each of those time periods actually divides further . there are four kinds of aspect . in the continuous or progressive aspect , the actions are still happening at the time of reference . the perfect aspect describes actions that are finished . the perfect progressive aspect is a combination , describing a completed part of a continuous action . and finally , there 's the simple aspect , the basic form of the past , present , and future tense where an action is not specified as continuous or discreet .	continuous ( progressive ) aspect in english is mostly used to describe actions that :	continuous ( progressive ) aspect in english is mostly used to describe actions that :
in places like indonesia , papua new guinea and the bahamas , scientists are using a variety of tools to help understand how individual parks can function together , so that their sum is greater than their whole . and this way , we can keep the beautiful necklace that is our coral reefs , intact .	what best describes a coral reef ?	what best describes a coral reef ?
in places like indonesia , papua new guinea and the bahamas , scientists are using a variety of tools to help understand how individual parks can function together , so that their sum is greater than their whole . and this way , we can keep the beautiful necklace that is our coral reefs , intact .	have you ever seen a coral reef ? what was it like ? describe in detail what you saw .	have you ever seen a coral reef ? what was it like ? describe in detail what you saw .
in places like indonesia , papua new guinea and the bahamas , scientists are using a variety of tools to help understand how individual parks can function together , so that their sum is greater than their whole . and this way , we can keep the beautiful necklace that is our coral reefs , intact .	what are some easy ways that you can contribute to the conservation of coral reefs ?	what are some easy ways that you can contribute to the conservation of coral reefs ?
in places like indonesia , papua new guinea and the bahamas , scientists are using a variety of tools to help understand how individual parks can function together , so that their sum is greater than their whole . and this way , we can keep the beautiful necklace that is our coral reefs , intact .	do a little research . why are coral reefs so important ? are they generally considered a fragile ecosystem , and are efforts to protect them necessary ?	do a little research . why are coral reefs so important ? are they generally considered a fragile ecosystem , and are efforts to protect them necessary ?
and if left in a cold and dark environment , dna could potentially last for hundreds of thousands of years . and if that is n't long enough , scientists experimented with having synthetic dna auto-reproduce . after creating their own strands of dna that spelled out the lyrics to the children 's song `` it 's a small world , '' they placed them into the genome of a microbe nicknamed conan the bacterium . conan belongs to a species which can survive in a vacuum , or without water , for six years , or come out unscathed after being exposed to a dose of radiation 1,000 times that which would kill a human .	the super-tough microbe that was used in the experiments to carry dna through extreme conditions was nicknamed :	the super-tough microbe that was used in the experiments to carry dna through extreme conditions was nicknamed :
david pearce has suggested that genetic engineering and other contemporary processes can not only alter the way humans experience emotional and physical pain , but that world ecosystems ought to be redesigned so that animals do n't suffer in the wild . he calls his project `` paradise engineering . '' but is there something sad about a world without sadness ?	paradise engineering is the idea that :	paradise engineering is the idea that :
when a study asked women to smell t-shirts that had been worn by different men , they preferred the odors of those whose mhc molecules differed from theirs . this makes sense . genes that result in a greater variety of immunities may give offspring a major survival advantage .	what would you consider the most important sense in attraction and why ?	what would you consider the most important sense in attraction and why ?
for him , the sphere of the world was made up of four elements : earth , water , air , and fire . these elements shifted around a nested set of solid crystalline spheres . each of the wandering stars , the planets , had their own crystal sphere .	which of the following was not a feature of the aristotelian notion of the heavenly spheres ?	which of the following was not a feature of the aristotelian notion of the heavenly spheres ?
this zone contains evidence of how our ancestors fished , how they repaired their ships , disposed of their trash , and even their convicted pirates , who were buried below the tide line . and it 's not just our recent history . 800,000-year old footprints were found along the shore in norfolk , britain .	written history is recorded by an author , but archaeology is physical evidence of an event without the filter of the writer , meaning that it often tells the stories of everyday people or forgotten events that did not survive in history books- such as the antikythera “ computer. ” what kinds of discovery would make you rethink your local or national history ?	written history is recorded by an author , but archaeology is physical evidence of an event without the filter of the writer , meaning that it often tells the stories of everyday people or forgotten events that did not survive in history books- such as the antikythera “ computer. ” what kinds of discovery would make you rethink your local or national history ?
it reveals of the presence of starch , which is commonly used to strengthen regular printer paper , but wo n't be found in real money . that 's because authentic bills are made of cotton and linen and are threaded with tiny red and blue fibers . that material is made by a single , highly-guarded company called crane and company , which has been printing currency since paul revere asked them to help finance the revolutionary war .	authentic dollar bills made of cotton and _____ .	authentic dollar bills made of cotton and _____ .
similarly , some beetles have two little drumsticks on either side of the penis . during mating , they 'll rub , slap , or tap the female with these . and some hoofed mammals , like rams and bulls , use a whip-like extension on the penis 's left side to create a sensation during mating .	after mating with a female , how do male black widow spiders discourage future males from mating with her as well ?	after mating with a female , how do male black widow spiders discourage future males from mating with her as well ?
and it 's not just necessities like water . when it comes to most things , the more of it you acquire , the less useful or enjoyable every additional bit becomes . this is the law of diminishing marginal utility .	when it comes to most things , the more of it you acquire , the less useful or enjoyable every additional bit becomes . can you think of a few examples that support this statement ?	when it comes to most things , the more of it you acquire , the less useful or enjoyable every additional bit becomes . can you think of a few examples that support this statement ?
the answer is all of them . these are all parasites , organisms that live on or inside another host organism , which they harm and sometimes even kill . parasite survival depends on transmitting from one host to the next , sometimes through an intermediate species .	how many organisms on earth are considered parasites ?	how many organisms on earth are considered parasites ?
and he said , `` sorry , we do n't do burger refill , man . '' ( laughter ) so this is where rejection happened and i could have run , but i stayed . i said , `` well , i love your burgers , i love your joint , and if you guys do a burger refill , i will love you guys more . ''	what happened to jia when he was fourteen ? how did that affect him ?	what happened to jia when he was fourteen ? how did that affect him ?
but what about when the claim is accompanied by a graph ? afterall , a graph is n't an opinion . it represents cold , hard numbers , and who can argue with those ?	how can graphs present an opinion ?	how can graphs present an opinion ?
but the acadmemic culture at the time was n't very friendly to women , and franklin was isolated from her colleagues . she clashed with maurice wilkins , a labmate who assumed franklin had been hired as his assistant . but franklin kept working , and in 1952 , she obtained photo 51 , the most famous x-ray image of dna . just getting the image took 100 hours , the calculations necessary to analyze it would take a year .	which of the following factors did not contribute to franklin being left out of the famous 1953 paper ?	which of the following factors did not contribute to franklin being left out of the famous 1953 paper ?
and so impeachment was adopted in the united states as a power of congress applying to any civil officers , up to and including the president . although demands for impeachment can come from any members of the public , only the house of representatives has the power to actually initiate the process . it begins by referring the matter to a committee , usually the house committee on rules and the house committee on the judiciary .	who can formally initiate the impeachment process ?	who can formally initiate the impeachment process ?
but these were demonstrated through multiple , well-conducted epidemiological studies , all pointing in the same direction . so , the next time you see a headline about a new miracle cure or the terrible danger posed by an everyday substance , try to learn more about the original study and the limitations inherent in any epidemiological study or clinical trial before jumping to conclusions .	what can i look for the next time i read about a health study in the news ?	what can i look for the next time i read about a health study in the news ?
the ones kind of at the tips of the skyscrapers are the most different , especially those above the red line . and these genes encode for things like immune response to disease , because there might be more disease in very dense , urban populations ; metabolism , how the mice use energy ; and heavy-metal tolerance . you guys can probably predict that new york city soils are pretty contaminated with lead and chromium and that sort of thing .	why are scientists like munshi-south studying urban wildlife ? what outcomes or results do you think these scientists are hoping to achieve ?	why are scientists like munshi-south studying urban wildlife ? what outcomes or results do you think these scientists are hoping to achieve ?
the evolution that we have described is referred to as microevolution , because it refers to a small change . however , this form of evolution may eventually lead to macroevolution , or speciation . every organism on the planet shares ancestry with a single common ancestor .	what is another name for macroevolution ?	what is another name for macroevolution ?
we do have tests called gram stains that detect bacteria , but they ca n't recognize endotoxins which can be there even when bacteria are n't present . so scientists use an extract called lal produced from harvested horseshoe crab blood to test for endotoxins . they add lal to a medicine sample , and if gels form , bacterial endotoxins are present .	we use amebocytes from horseshoe crab blood to test for :	we use amebocytes from horseshoe crab blood to test for :
there are four types of tissues found in the human body : connective , muscle , nervous , and epithelial . bone tissue is a type of connective tissue and it 's not flimsy like a kleenex at all . blood is also an example of the same cells working together to perform the same job , but it 's a liquid , again , not like a kleenex at all .	an example of a tissue is :	an example of a tissue is :
these appear in the work of ezra pound , gertrude stein , james joyce , and woolf herself . while reading joyce 's `` ulysses , '' woolf began writing `` mrs . dalloway . ''	how does woolf put the state of alienation into words ? what are the features of her writing that allowed her to articulate the life of the mind in new ways ?	how does woolf put the state of alienation into words ? what are the features of her writing that allowed her to articulate the life of the mind in new ways ?
the treaty that established the un gives as one of its purposes to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights . and with the same spirit , in 1948 , the un general assembly adopted the universal declaration of human rights . this document , written by an international committee chaired by eleanor roosevelt , lays the basis for modern international human rights law .	explain the role , content and impact of the un universal declaration of human rights .	explain the role , content and impact of the un universal declaration of human rights .
in both processes , the co2 accumulates and creates tiny bubbles . these bubbles get trapped by gluten and create a sponge-like structure that gives the bread its soft texture . wine also relies on yeast .	why is bread soft and airy ?	why is bread soft and airy ?
and then i ate one slice . one bag , one apple , one slice . which of these is the real `` one '' ?	the number one hundred can be thought of as :	the number one hundred can be thought of as :
this evolutionary conflict of interests places a woman and her unborn child in a biological tug-of-war that plays out inside the womb . one factor contributing to this internal tussle is the placenta , the fetal organ that connects to the mother 's blood supply and nourishes the fetus while it grows . in most mammals , the placenta is confined behind a barrier of maternal cells .	the fetal organ that connects the mother 's blood supply and nourishes the fetus while it grows is the :	the fetal organ that connects the mother 's blood supply and nourishes the fetus while it grows is the :
but the thing is it also releases millions of years worth of stored co2 back into the air . in addition , humans breathe in oxygen and breathe out co2 . but plants do the opposite .	humans breathe in _______ and exhale _______ .	humans breathe in _______ and exhale _______ .
it also applies to golf balls , frisbees and baseballs . in every case , the same thing happens . the ball 's spin creates a pressure differential in the surrounding air flow that curves it in the direction of the spin . and here 's a question .	what happens to the route of the ball if you spin it vertically instead of horizontally ?	what happens to the route of the ball if you spin it vertically instead of horizontally ?
two or three days ago , i got a letter from one of our fans and it ’ s different from any other letter that we have ever had , because this fan , young , has attached to it a sample of an element and what ’ s more it is an element that i had never seen . it ’ s scandium . it ’ s only a small piece but according to my colleague steve , it ’ s a very expensive element , so this might be quite valuable , and scandium is a really interesting element , much more interesting than i realised , when i first talked about it on the video . scandium is an element which chemists usually ignore , i have never used scandium in any of my research .	why might scandium become a very interesting element in the future ?	why might scandium become a very interesting element in the future ?
the calculations to determine a ship 's location for each measurement could take hours . but sextants and clocks were n't useful unless sailors could use these tools to determine their position . fortunately , in the 1600s , an amateur mathematician had invented the missing piece .	explain why it was important for sailors to measure the distance between the horizon and a celestial body . how did it help them determine their position in the ocean ?	explain why it was important for sailors to measure the distance between the horizon and a celestial body . how did it help them determine their position in the ocean ?
the calculations to determine a ship 's location for each measurement could take hours . but sextants and clocks were n't useful unless sailors could use these tools to determine their position . fortunately , in the 1600s , an amateur mathematician had invented the missing piece .	obviously , we no longer use sextants and clocks to navigate the sea . name three inventions that have carried us past the use of logarithms .	obviously , we no longer use sextants and clocks to navigate the sea . name three inventions that have carried us past the use of logarithms .
but recent research has revealed that comets may be even more deeply connected to humanity and our presence on earth than any of these mythical explanations suggested . when you think of our solar system , you probably imagine the nine , sorry eight , planets orbiting the sun . but beyond neptune , far from the heat of the sun , there is a sparse ring found formed by icy chunks ranging from the size of marbles to that of small planets .	do you think the pursuit of knowledge in comets , planets and science is worth the cost and effort , why ?	do you think the pursuit of knowledge in comets , planets and science is worth the cost and effort , why ?
hourglasses are devices in which fine sand pours through a tiny hole at a constant rate and indicates a predetermined passage of an arbitrary period of time . the origin of the hourglass is uncertain , although beginning in the 14th century , the hourglass was used commonly , especially on board ships . the motion of the boat on the water did not affect the hourglass , unlike other time-measuring devices .	the origin of the hourglass is uncertain although beginning in the 14th century it was especially common to see the hourglass used :	the origin of the hourglass is uncertain although beginning in the 14th century it was especially common to see the hourglass used :
in fact , the word placebo means `` i shall please '' in latin , hinting at a history of placating troubled patients . placebos had to mimic the real treatments in order to be convincing , so they took the form of sugar pills , water-filled injections , and even sham surgeries . soon , doctors realized that duping people in this way had another use : in clinical trials .	placebos can take the form of :	placebos can take the form of :
nice weather , a good economy , or lots of resources would be pull factors for lots of people , enticing them to move . while zombies are definitely a push factor for humans , a city full of people would be a pull factor for hungry zombies who want to eat humans . there are some things that make movement easier for people or zombies .	which of the following is not typically a pull factor ?	which of the following is not typically a pull factor ?
in this short video , we 're going to show you how we constructed and animated a pop-up book to explain earth 's tectonic plates . the supercontinent pangaea broke apart 200,000,000 years ago , but the pieces have n't stopped shifting . although with animation we can show this movement easily with drawings , we thought it 'd be more interesting to depict gigantic sliding slabs of rock using a tangible object that also moves and shifts .	the supercontinent pangaea broke up 200 million years ago and the plates :	the supercontinent pangaea broke up 200 million years ago and the plates :
silly putty was born ! synthetic polymers have changed the world . think about it .	leo baekeland invented ___________________ which was one of the earliest synthetic polymers .	leo baekeland invented ___________________ which was one of the earliest synthetic polymers .
silly putty was born ! synthetic polymers have changed the world . think about it .	clearly , synthetic polymers make our life easier , but their use has caused environmental problems . what ways can we reduce pollution problems caused by the overuse of synthetic polymers ?	clearly , synthetic polymers make our life easier , but their use has caused environmental problems . what ways can we reduce pollution problems caused by the overuse of synthetic polymers ?
there are campaigns in the north of england and into scotland , to the north of the river danube into romania , and on the frontier between syria and iraq to the east . it 's now the eighth hour -- time to head for the baths . lucius and his family head up the via lata , the wide street , to the campus martius , and the enormous baths of agrippa .	at the baths , bathers participate in a more-than-an-hour long event that includes all of the following except :	at the baths , bathers participate in a more-than-an-hour long event that includes all of the following except :
but taken with psyche 's beauty , cupid used the arrow on himself . he did n't believe , however , that gods and humans could love as equals . now that she knew his true form , their hopes for happiness were dashed , so he flew away .	what motivates the main characters in this myth ? love ? jealousy ? shame ? is there a single emotion driving the story ?	what motivates the main characters in this myth ? love ? jealousy ? shame ? is there a single emotion driving the story ?
but taken with psyche 's beauty , cupid used the arrow on himself . he did n't believe , however , that gods and humans could love as equals . now that she knew his true form , their hopes for happiness were dashed , so he flew away .	what does this myth seem to be saying about the relationship between humans and the gods ?	what does this myth seem to be saying about the relationship between humans and the gods ?
but there are some types of companies that are n't engaged in any business at all . instead , these anonymous companies exist mainly to disguise people doing things they 'd rather not have the public know about . and these people go to great lengths to hide any links between their names and the companies they own .	which of the following things is not a common method for forming anonymous companies ?	which of the following things is not a common method for forming anonymous companies ?
but there are some types of companies that are n't engaged in any business at all . instead , these anonymous companies exist mainly to disguise people doing things they 'd rather not have the public know about . and these people go to great lengths to hide any links between their names and the companies they own .	what is an argument that people make in favor of anonymous companies ?	what is an argument that people make in favor of anonymous companies ?
it does n't look good , and you have to clean up the mess before you can even start . let 's try another way . to start , use a placemat or tablecloth , but not both , so the dishes are n't directly on the table .	which way do the knives point when placed on the table or the bread plate ?	which way do the knives point when placed on the table or the bread plate ?
one copy you inherited from mom , the other from dad . this redundancy is a good a thing because you only need one functioning brca1 gene in a cell to regulate the cell cycle . but it 's important to note that while these copies have a similar function they 're not necessarily the same .	suppose that a cell has a mutation in one of its brca1 genes that inactivates the gene . what will this do to the rate at which the cell divides ?	suppose that a cell has a mutation in one of its brca1 genes that inactivates the gene . what will this do to the rate at which the cell divides ?
well , because my father was born in russia and therefore to get something connected to russia wrong is a bit embarrassing . the ruthenium is a very , very reactive metal especially when it is formed in this very fine sponge type material . ruthenium was actually discovered relatively early in the middle of the 19th century .	in which type of chemical research lab is ruthenium most useful ?	in which type of chemical research lab is ruthenium most useful ?
but venus intercepted psyche and said she and cupid could only wed if she completed a series of impossible tasks . first , psyche was told to sort a huge , messy pile of seeds in a single night . just as she was abandoning hope , an ant colony took pity on her and helped with the work .	psyche sorts through a giant pile of seeds :	psyche sorts through a giant pile of seeds :
now with the top , so itís on fire and then weíll just drop it into the flask . and you can see that that sulphurís burning really intensely now , with a really quite beautiful flame . itís generating a lot of so2 , really smelly , which is why we are doing it inside this fume cupboard and you can see this really rich intense blue flame as that sulphur is burning in that excess oxygen in that atmosphere .	the beautiful mineral pyrite is a source of sulfur . write its composition below ?	the beautiful mineral pyrite is a source of sulfur . write its composition below ?
rather , they were led to the dual nature of the universe through a process of small steps , fitting together lots of bits of evidence , like pieces in a puzzle . the first person to seriously suggest the dual nature of light was albert einstein in 1905 , but he was picking up an earlier idea from max planck . planck explained the colors of light emitted by hot objects , like the filament in a light bulb , but to do it , he needed a desperate trick : he said the object was made up of oscillators that could only emit light in discrete chunks , units of energy that depend on the frequency of the light . planck was never really happy with this , but einstein picked it up and ran with it .	what did max planck use to explain the spectrum of light emitted by a hot object ?	what did max planck use to explain the spectrum of light emitted by a hot object ?
i got a balloon ! i had a balloon of hydrogen ! that is the second time you have done that !	the reaction between hydrogen and oxygen produces water , but why does n't it rain on pete when the balloon explodes ?	the reaction between hydrogen and oxygen produces water , but why does n't it rain on pete when the balloon explodes ?
i got a balloon ! i had a balloon of hydrogen ! that is the second time you have done that !	if you stuck a pin in the hydrogen balloon , the hydrogen would escape but it would n't react with the oxygen in the atmosphere . what type of energy is needed to begin the reaction between hydrogen and oxygen ?	if you stuck a pin in the hydrogen balloon , the hydrogen would escape but it would n't react with the oxygen in the atmosphere . what type of energy is needed to begin the reaction between hydrogen and oxygen ?
i got a balloon ! i had a balloon of hydrogen ! that is the second time you have done that !	most hydrogen is produced industrially by steam reforming of natural gas . electrolysis of water also produces hydrogen , but it is used less frequently . can you write the general equation for the electrolysis of water ?	most hydrogen is produced industrially by steam reforming of natural gas . electrolysis of water also produces hydrogen , but it is used less frequently . can you write the general equation for the electrolysis of water ?
and that 's something doctors do all the time in a procedure called a ct , computed tomography scan , another nobel prize winning invention . think of ct like this . with just one x-ray , you might be able to see the density change due to a solid tumor in a patient , but you would n't know how deep it is beneath the surface .	in addition to medical examinations , what are other applications with which ct could help ?	in addition to medical examinations , what are other applications with which ct could help ?
scientists who study infectious diseases have wondered for decades why it is that some of these germs are relatively harmless , while others cause devastating effects and can sometimes be fatal . we still have n't solved the entire puzzle , but what we do know is that the harmfulness , or virulence , of a germ is a result of evolution . how can it be that the same evolutionary process can produce germs that cause very different levels of harm ?	the harmfulness of a germ is called :	the harmfulness of a germ is called :
with social media sites being used by ⅓ of the entire world , they ’ ve clearly had an major influence on society . but what about our bodies ?	social media sites are used by 3/4 of the population of the entire world .	social media sites are used by 3/4 of the population of the entire world .
now , ocean sounds are practically their own field of study , noaa has been monitoring acoustics in the ocean for decades now . instead of microphones , which are used to collect sound in air , noaa uses hydrophones to record underwater sounds . mostly , these hydrophones are used to listen to the ambient sound of the ocean , to see how humans might interfere with it , and to listen for things like earthquakes and whale calls .	what equipment is used to record underwater sounds ?	what equipment is used to record underwater sounds ?
say we have four people trying to sit in four numbered chairs . how many ways can they be seated ? to start off , any of the four people can sit in the first chair .	it ’ s saturday morning , and you have 3 errands to complete today : get groceries , call your friend and fix your bike . first , you need to decide the order in which you want to complete the 3 errands . in how many different ways can you complete these 3 tasks ?	it ’ s saturday morning , and you have 3 errands to complete today : get groceries , call your friend and fix your bike . first , you need to decide the order in which you want to complete the 3 errands . in how many different ways can you complete these 3 tasks ?
of them , one still has two males , giving us our two in three , or 67 % chance of getting a female . this is how conditional probability works . you start off with a large sample space that includes every possibility . but every additional piece of information allows you to eliminate possibilities , shrinking the sample space and increasing the probability of getting a particular combination . the point is that information affects probability .	is probability fixed , or is it something that changes depending on the information available to the observer ? describe what happens in terms of the sample space .	is probability fixed , or is it something that changes depending on the information available to the observer ? describe what happens in terms of the sample space .
statistics are persuasive . so much so that people , organizations , and whole countries base some of their most important decisions on organized data . but there 's a problem with that .	what types of motivation could be at play when people or organizations present statistics ?	what types of motivation could be at play when people or organizations present statistics ?
first developed in the early 1980s , it predicts that germs will evolve to maximize their overall success by achieving a balance between replicating within a host , which causes virulence , and transmission to a new host . in the case of the rhinovirus , the hypothesis predicts that its evolution will favor less virulent forms because it relies on close contact to get to its next victim . for the rhinovirus , a mobile host is a good host , and indeed , that is what we see .	explain the statement , `` evolution favors the less virulent form because it relies on close contact to get to its next victim . ”	explain the statement , `` evolution favors the less virulent form because it relies on close contact to get to its next victim . ”
once elaine leaves the mouth of the fresh water streams , she will disappear completely from human view . no one has witnessed , or been able to follow , an adult eel on their migration , nor do we know how deep they spawn . but it 's assumed that they can follow some signs that they can detect , such as a thermal barrier between ocean currents or a salinity front , in order to return to the same area of the ocean where they were born .	what has no one ever witnessed ( or been able to follow ) before ?	what has no one ever witnessed ( or been able to follow ) before ?
each year in the united states , players of sports and recreational activities receive between 2.5 and 4 million concussions . how dangerous are all those concussions ? the answer is complicated , and lies in how the brain responds when something strikes it .	which of the following statements about concussions is false ?	which of the following statements about concussions is false ?
patients with primary tumors that were drained by vessels leading to the lung would eventually develop lung metastases . today , we know that both theories contain valuable truths . yet the full stories of metastasis is much more complicated than either of the two proposed theories . factors like the cancer cell 's properties , and the effectiveness of the immune system in eliminating the cancer cells , also play a role in determining the success of metastasis .	which of the following theories explains metastasis completely ?	which of the following theories explains metastasis completely ?
this means chronic stress might make it harder for you to learn and remember things , and also set the stage for more serious mental problems , like depression and eventually alzheimer 's disease . the effects of stress may filter right down to your brain 's dna . an experiment showed that the amount of nurturing a mother rat provides its newborn baby plays a part in determining how that baby responds to stress later in life .	how does chronic stress change your dna ?	how does chronic stress change your dna ?
reasonable expectations of the situation are not met . that is irony . so while the cake dropper might not be ironic , there are all kinds of situations in life that are .	we often confuse irony with something _____________ .	we often confuse irony with something _____________ .
reasonable expectations of the situation are not met . that is irony . so while the cake dropper might not be ironic , there are all kinds of situations in life that are .	why do people enjoy irony ?	why do people enjoy irony ?
thomas edison once said , `` we do n't know one percent of one millionth about anything . '' and i 've come to the conclusion -- because you ask this other question : `` what 's another thing we ca n't see ? '' the point , most of us .	lloyd says that there are only two questions we should ask . `` why are we here ? '' and `` what are we going to do about it ? '' do you think that sums it all up ? if you had to ask another question , what would it be ?	lloyd says that there are only two questions we should ask . `` why are we here ? '' and `` what are we going to do about it ? '' do you think that sums it all up ? if you had to ask another question , what would it be ?
without them , corals turn a bleached white and are susceptible to disease and possibly death . and once the coral dies , the entire reef ecosystem is not far behind . so you 're now ready to make an informed choice when picking out your next sunscreen .	movies like “ finding nemo ” and “ finding dory ” feature common and popular coral reef fish . what impact on the ecosystem do you think these movies have on the real life clown fish and blue tang populations they are modeled after ?	movies like “ finding nemo ” and “ finding dory ” feature common and popular coral reef fish . what impact on the ecosystem do you think these movies have on the real life clown fish and blue tang populations they are modeled after ?
they usually have three parts : sedimentation , filtration , and disinfection . once water has been collected in a treatment facility , it 's ready for cleaning . the first step , sedimentation , just takes time . the water sits undisturbed , allowing heavier particles to sink to the bottom . often , though , particles are just too small to be removed by sedimentation alone and need to be filtered .	the phase of water treatment that takes time for heavier particles to settle to the bottom of a tank is :	the phase of water treatment that takes time for heavier particles to settle to the bottom of a tank is :
this is a manifesto about how to make attractive cities . there are six fundamental things a city needs to get right . 1 .	what are the tallest buildings in the city you live in ( or if you do not live in a city , the city nearest to where you reside ) ? what do you think of their presence ?	what are the tallest buildings in the city you live in ( or if you do not live in a city , the city nearest to where you reside ) ? what do you think of their presence ?
for example , this is the gordian worm . one of its hosts , this cricket . the gordian worm needs water to mate , but the cricket prefers dry land .	what do gordian worms do to their cricket hosts ?	what do gordian worms do to their cricket hosts ?
that 's where genetics and dna come in . by looking at how closely related the fish in each one of these small reserves in fiji are to each other , scientists can figure out how much migration is going on among the reserves within the system . now it 's important to look at a variety of different species because there 's no guarantee that what 's going on with these guys is what 's going on with these guys .	what best describes what scientists need to observe in order to determine the migration habits of fish between each ecosystem ?	what best describes what scientists need to observe in order to determine the migration habits of fish between each ecosystem ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar have you heard the one about thomas jefferson and the louisiana territory ? thomas jefferson , author of the declaration of independence , was not a fan of the new constitution presented in 1787 . he was very worried that the constitution gave too much power to the new , national government , and not enough power to the states , an issue known as `` big government '' .	thomas jefferson ultimately justified the louisiana purchase as being implied in the constitution ’ s	thomas jefferson ultimately justified the louisiana purchase as being implied in the constitution ’ s
as the ice sheets spread , retreated , and returned , some animals were either able to adapt to the changes , or migrate to a more suitable environment . others , however , such as giant ground sloths , giant hyenas , and mammoths went extinct . the extinction of these large mammals coincides with changes in the climate and ecosystem due to the melting ice caps . but there is also an uncomfortable overlap with the rise of a certain hominid species originating in africa 150,000 years ago .	the relatively recent extinction of large mammals such as mammoths was caused by _____________ .	the relatively recent extinction of large mammals such as mammoths was caused by _____________ .
these circles that keep growing in radius are called wave fronts . similarly , even though we can not see it , a stationary sound source , like a home stereo , creates sound waves traveling outward . the speed of the waves depends on factors like the altitude and temperature of the air they move through . at sea level , sound travels at about 1225 km/h . but instead of circles on a two-dimensional surface , the wave fronts are now concentric spheres , with the sound traveling along rays perpendicular to these waves .	the speed of sound depends on :	the speed of sound depends on :
but the more he wrestled with it , the more it seemed there might be something there after all . the answer he came up with had to do with a type of geometry that did not quite exist yet , what he called the geometry of position , now known as graph theory . euler 's first insight was that the route taken between entering an island or a riverbank and leaving it did n't actually matter .	the “ geometry of position ” is now known as which branch of mathematics ?	the “ geometry of position ” is now known as which branch of mathematics ?
the 1600 eruption of peru 's huaynaputina is likely to have triggered the russian famine , that killed nearly two million , while more ancient eruptions have been blamed for major world events , such as the fall of the chinese xia dynasty , the disappearance of the minoan civilization , and even a genetic bottleneck in human evolution that may have resulted from all but a few thousand human beings being wiped out 70,000 years ago . one of the most dangerous types of supervolcano is an explosive caldera , formed when a volcanic mountain collapses after an eruption so large that the now-empty magma chamber can no longer support its weight . but though the above-ground volcano is gone , the underground volcanic activity continues .	describe the steps of how a caldera is formed and how it leads to a supervolcanic eruption .	describe the steps of how a caldera is formed and how it leads to a supervolcanic eruption .
then , using a technology called the sanger method , each piece was sequenced letter by letter . this rigorous map-based approach called hierarchical shotgun sequencing minimized the risk of misassembly , a huge hazard of sequencing genomes with many repetitive portions , like the human genome . the consortium 's `` better safe than sorry '' approach contrasted starkly with celera 's strategy called whole genome shotgun sequencing . it hinged on skipping the mapping phase entirely , a faster , though foolhardy , approach according to some .	why was celera 's whole-genome sequencing approach considered more risky than the human genome project 's approach ?	why was celera 's whole-genome sequencing approach considered more risky than the human genome project 's approach ?
`` why yes , which do you need ? it 's 12:13 local time and 12:16 railway time . '' ultimately , the logic of keeping a standard time prevailed , and the united states government made time zones a matter of law with the standard time act of march 19 , 1918 . since then , there have been numerous changes to the time zones , but the concept of standard time has remained . but , the united states was actually not the first to develop standard time .	what day were standard time zones implemented ?	what day were standard time zones implemented ?
`` so what do we actually know ? cleopatra vii was the last of the ptolemaic dynasty , a macedonian greek family that governed egypt after its conquest by alexander the great . she ruled jointly in alexandria with her brother- to whom she was also married- until he had her exiled . ''	what was pompey ’ s connection to egypt and cleopatra ’ s family ?	what was pompey ’ s connection to egypt and cleopatra ’ s family ?
the cardinal 's bright red comes from carotenoids , the same pigments that make carrots orange , while the black of its face is from melanin , the pigment that colors our hair and skin . but in bird feathers , melanin is n't simply a dye . it forms hollow nanostructures called melanosomes which can shine in all the colors of the rainbow . to understand how that works , it helps to remember some things about light .	in feathers , melanin forms nanostructures called :	in feathers , melanin forms nanostructures called :
but so far we 've only talked about twitter , right ? and twitter is n't all the data . we learned a moment ago that there is tons and tons , tons more data out there .	list a few other ways you think data captured from twitter can be used .	list a few other ways you think data captured from twitter can be used .
but so far we 've only talked about twitter , right ? and twitter is n't all the data . we learned a moment ago that there is tons and tons , tons more data out there .	what 's a big data project you can start ? do you think it 's possible without the use of social media platforms ( like twitter and facebook ) ?	what 's a big data project you can start ? do you think it 's possible without the use of social media platforms ( like twitter and facebook ) ?
incredible . surely , thespis will go down in history as the very first actor . he has changed the face of theater forever .	who is given credit as being the first actor ?	who is given credit as being the first actor ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby mysteries of vernacular : bewilder , to confuse or puzzle completely . the root of the word bewilder can be traced back to the old english word wilde , which was used to refer to something that was in a natural state , uncultivated , or undomesticated . over time , the word wild was often linked to the old english word deor .	what is back-formation ?	what is back-formation ?
in my first video about gallium , i said that it was not a very interesting element with not much , many applications and we have had emails from people who were outraged . there is one email from a gentleman in america whose company makes tonnes of gallium salts that have quite important applications and of course gallium is particularly important in new generation of compounds , so-called semi-conductors , that are used in the electronics industry . so if i stand and hold it for long enough , in theory , the temperature should come from my hand , the heat should come from my hand , so it should melt the gallium and then eventually we should have a small amount of liquid .	today almost all gallium is used for microelectronics in the form of salts , one example being light-emitting diodes . what is the acronym for those diodes ?	today almost all gallium is used for microelectronics in the form of salts , one example being light-emitting diodes . what is the acronym for those diodes ?
these natural chemicals are a great help when you need to run away quickly , or do superhuman feats of courage , but when you 're simply sitting , these stress hormones collect in the body and affect your overall health . stress hormones increase inflammation in the body , suppress the immune system , which makes you more susceptible to infection by acne-causing bacteria , and can even increase oil production in the skin . and this is the perfect storm for forming a pimple . cortisol is a major stress hormone involved in making skin cells churn out oily lipids from special glands called sebaceous glands . but when there 's too much of these oily lipids , called sebum , they can plug up the swollen , inflamed pores and trap the pesky , acne-causing bacteria inside , where they set up house and thrive .	a pimple is indeed not simple . although we focused on the stress component , which increases inflammation and oil production , describe a few other components that lead to the development of an actual pimple . ( video hint : “ cortisol is a major stress hormone involved in ... ” )	a pimple is indeed not simple . although we focused on the stress component , which increases inflammation and oil production , describe a few other components that lead to the development of an actual pimple . ( video hint : “ cortisol is a major stress hormone involved in ... ” )
i needed to listen . this has been at the front of my mind lately , because i ca n't help but see in our public discourse so many of the same destructive impulses that ruled my former church . we celebrate tolerance and diversity more than at any other time in memory , and still we grow more and more divided .	how does megan believe that her experience mirrors the current public discourse ?	how does megan believe that her experience mirrors the current public discourse ?
one summer break , i came here to new york for an internship at a fashion house in chinatown . we worked on two incredible dresses that were 3d printed . they were amazing -- like you can see here .	what were some of the issues danit initially had with creating 3d printed clothing ?	what were some of the issues danit initially had with creating 3d printed clothing ?
finally , let 's imagine the history of the earth as your life : from the moment you 're born to your first day of high school . your first word , first time sitting up , and first time walking would all take place while life on earth was comprised of single-celled organisms . in fact , the first multicellular organism would n't evolve until you were 12 years old and starting 7th grade , right around the time your science teacher is telling the class how fossils are formed .	relative to the percent of time dominating the surface of earth which organisms have the longest reign ?	relative to the percent of time dominating the surface of earth which organisms have the longest reign ?
finally , let 's imagine the history of the earth as your life : from the moment you 're born to your first day of high school . your first word , first time sitting up , and first time walking would all take place while life on earth was comprised of single-celled organisms . in fact , the first multicellular organism would n't evolve until you were 12 years old and starting 7th grade , right around the time your science teacher is telling the class how fossils are formed .	understanding geologic time is significant because it helps us	understanding geologic time is significant because it helps us
finally , let 's imagine the history of the earth as your life : from the moment you 're born to your first day of high school . your first word , first time sitting up , and first time walking would all take place while life on earth was comprised of single-celled organisms . in fact , the first multicellular organism would n't evolve until you were 12 years old and starting 7th grade , right around the time your science teacher is telling the class how fossils are formed .	which organism first dominated earth ?	which organism first dominated earth ?
the absence of these very elements brings the `` girl with the pearl earring '' to life . vermeer 's treatment of light and shadow , or chiaroscuro , uses a dark , flat background to further spotlight her three-dimensionality . instead of being like a set piece in a theatrical narrative scene , she becomes a psychological subject .	what does chiaroscuro refer to ?	what does chiaroscuro refer to ?
and , it is the material of the object that determines if it gains or loses electrical fluid during charging . these are du fay 's two groups of electrics . you might have heard the phrase : `` opposite charges attract , like charges repel . ''	which two substances did charles du fay find he was unable to turn into electrics ?	which two substances did charles du fay find he was unable to turn into electrics ?
music was used as a form of medicine to treat illnesses and physical complaints , as a vital accompaniment to sporting contests , and as a means to keep workers in time as they toiled away on monotonous or menial tasks . one of the most important applications of music in ancient greek society is found in the belief that music can affect a person 's ethos . a word we still use today , ethos is a person 's guiding beliefs or personal ethics , the way that one behaves towards oneself and others .	what are some ways that you use or are exposed to music in daily life that someone from ancient greece would recognize ? are there ways that we use music today that an ancient greek citizen would find strange ?	what are some ways that you use or are exposed to music in daily life that someone from ancient greece would recognize ? are there ways that we use music today that an ancient greek citizen would find strange ?
three critical story components influenced by aristotle 's `` poetics '' help us understand the allure . first , the tragic hero should be elevated in rank and ability , but also relatable . perhaps he is a king , or extraordinary in some other way .	which of the following is not a component of the tragic hero ?	which of the following is not a component of the tragic hero ?
three critical story components influenced by aristotle 's `` poetics '' help us understand the allure . first , the tragic hero should be elevated in rank and ability , but also relatable . perhaps he is a king , or extraordinary in some other way .	hamlet , macbeth , king lear and brutus are just a few of shakespeare 's characters that may be considered tragic heroes . identify some tragic characters from recent films or books .	hamlet , macbeth , king lear and brutus are just a few of shakespeare 's characters that may be considered tragic heroes . identify some tragic characters from recent films or books .
and certain techniques to make the process more efficient shaped the style of the cartoons . john : felix the cat , for example , was a very boxy-looking character . as felix was becoming more popular , the animator bill nolan decided to remove his snout and make him more circular overall .	how did the design for felix the cat change as the series began to get more popular ?	how did the design for felix the cat change as the series began to get more popular ?
what past events have shaped the way it is now ? then i brainstorm answers to questions that draw out the details of my fictional world . what rules are in place here ?	which is not an example of a rule in a fictional world ?	which is not an example of a rule in a fictional world ?
what past events have shaped the way it is now ? then i brainstorm answers to questions that draw out the details of my fictional world . what rules are in place here ?	which fictional world below is not referenced as an example in the video ?	which fictional world below is not referenced as an example in the video ?
what past events have shaped the way it is now ? then i brainstorm answers to questions that draw out the details of my fictional world . what rules are in place here ?	what are some important questions to ask in the process of building a fictional world , and how might these questions differ depending on the type of book being written ( fantasy , science fiction , etc . ) ?	what are some important questions to ask in the process of building a fictional world , and how might these questions differ depending on the type of book being written ( fantasy , science fiction , etc . ) ?
what past events have shaped the way it is now ? then i brainstorm answers to questions that draw out the details of my fictional world . what rules are in place here ?	what other books have you read in which world building would have been an important part of the writing process , and what kinds of questions do you think the authors considered ?	what other books have you read in which world building would have been an important part of the writing process , and what kinds of questions do you think the authors considered ?
it was the first really successful example of the beat-them-up genre . it was released in 1987 , and , like donkey kong , it featured a damsel in distress storyline , a storyline common in many video games . by the mid-90s , the golden age of arcade games was coming to an end , and the home game console was gaining in popularity .	damsel in distress is a very common storyline in video games .	damsel in distress is a very common storyline in video games .
so , why ca n't we rely on these studies to establish causal relationships between substances and their effects on health ? the problem is that even the best conducted epidemiological studies have inherent flaws . precisely because the test subjects are not randomly assigned to their groups .	rcts can not always be conducted in humans due to :	rcts can not always be conducted in humans due to :
it was n't long before his own measurements were more accurate than those in his books . while in germany , tycho got into a bit of an argument with another student at a party over a mathematical formula , resulting in a sword duel and tycho losing a good-sized chunk of his nose . after that , he was said to have worn a realistic prosthetic of gold and silver that he would glue onto his face .	what was the subject of the argument that eventually ended in a sword duel and the loss of part of brahe ’ s nose ?	what was the subject of the argument that eventually ended in a sword duel and the loss of part of brahe ’ s nose ?
both honeybees and humans originate in east africa . and , here in kenya , a wonderful relationship exists where a bird called a honeyguide , up there , has this interesting phenomenon where it actually leads either humans , which it 's done for thousands of years , 77,000 year old paintings from tanzania , and the honey badger to the wild honeybee colony . now , for a long time we thought this relationship first evolved between the honeyguide and the honey badger . but it turns out that it actually evolved between the human and the honeyguide , and the badger 's a parasite .	what is the relationship between the honeybee and the badger ?	what is the relationship between the honeybee and the badger ?
but , this is only a single characteristic in a very high-dimensional space . with a clustering tool called principal component analysis , we can reduce the multidimensional space into simple principal components that collectively measure the variance in shakespeare 's works . we can then test the works of our candidates against those principal components .	what clustering tool did stylometrists use to collectively measure variance in shakespeare 's works ?	what clustering tool did stylometrists use to collectively measure variance in shakespeare 's works ?
finally , on may 25th , the necessary quorum of seven states is acheived . in all , 55 delegates arrive in philadelphia over the course of the convention . they are all white males , property owners , and the average age is about 44 .	the group of delegates that originally advocated a strong national government was a minority . how do you think were they able to achieve their objective , and achieve it relatively quickly during the initial days of the grand convention ?	the group of delegates that originally advocated a strong national government was a minority . how do you think were they able to achieve their objective , and achieve it relatively quickly during the initial days of the grand convention ?
finally , on may 25th , the necessary quorum of seven states is acheived . in all , 55 delegates arrive in philadelphia over the course of the convention . they are all white males , property owners , and the average age is about 44 .	every state except ____________ sent delegates the grand convention .	every state except ____________ sent delegates the grand convention .
however , if you take x-rays from multiple angles , you should be able to find the tumor 's position and shape . a ct scanner works by sending a fan or cone of x-rays through a patient to an array of detectors . the x-ray beam is rotated around the patient , and often also moved down the patient 's body , with the x-ray source tracing a spiral trajectory . spiral ct scans produce data that can be processed into cross sections detailed enough to spot anatomical features , tumors , blood clots , and infections .	a cross-section through which a patient can be reconstructed from _____ .	a cross-section through which a patient can be reconstructed from _____ .
however , if you take x-rays from multiple angles , you should be able to find the tumor 's position and shape . a ct scanner works by sending a fan or cone of x-rays through a patient to an array of detectors . the x-ray beam is rotated around the patient , and often also moved down the patient 's body , with the x-ray source tracing a spiral trajectory . spiral ct scans produce data that can be processed into cross sections detailed enough to spot anatomical features , tumors , blood clots , and infections .	normally the healthcare benefits of medical x-ray ct procedures are far more than a small potential risk to an involved patient . what are some ways in which fewer x-rays can be used to reduce the radiation risk to a patient ?	normally the healthcare benefits of medical x-ray ct procedures are far more than a small potential risk to an involved patient . what are some ways in which fewer x-rays can be used to reduce the radiation risk to a patient ?
for instance , one recent study concluded that shakespeare worked with playwright christopher marlowe on `` henry vi , '' parts one and two . shakespeare 's identity is only one of the many problems stylometry can resolve . it can help us determine when a work was written , whether an ancient text is a forgery , whether a student has committed plagiarism , or if that email you just received is of a high priority or spam .	what are some other uses of stylometry aside from resolving shakespeare 's identity ?	what are some other uses of stylometry aside from resolving shakespeare 's identity ?
instead , we look at ourselves . at earth . because this is the one planet in the universe that we know for certain is habitable .	what keeps the oceans in their place ? explain , in your own words , what would happen if the earth did n't have a strong enough gravitational pull .	what keeps the oceans in their place ? explain , in your own words , what would happen if the earth did n't have a strong enough gravitational pull .
many plants are lucky enough to go their whole lives without being eaten , eventually dying and leaving remains . all of these uneaten , undigested , and dead plant parts , that 90 % of terrestrial plant matter ? that becomes detritus , the base of what we call the brown food chain , which looks more like this .	what molecule from the atmosphere is captured during photosynthesis to generate plant food and biomass ?	what molecule from the atmosphere is captured during photosynthesis to generate plant food and biomass ?
on the other hand , all the cells in someone with only one x chromosome can only express the mutant copy of the gene if that 's what they inherited . there are still unresolved questions about x inactivation , like how some genes on the x chromosome escape inactivation and why inactivation is n't always random . what we do know is that this mechanism is one of the many ways that genes alone do n't tell our whole story .	what happens to an x chromosome that has undergone x-inactivation ?	what happens to an x chromosome that has undergone x-inactivation ?
the added weight of the water in the hull made the vessel sink , but as the salt dissolved in the water , the weight decreased enough that the force of gravity became less than the buoyant force and the ship floated back to the surface . but how do we explain the most enduring aspect of ghost ship legends : multiple sightings of the same ships hundreds of miles and several years apart ? the answer lies in ocean currents , which are like invisible rivers flowing through the ocean . factors , like temperature , salinity , wind , gravity , and the coriolis effect from the earth 's rotation create a complex system of water movement .	what natural forces cause ocean currents that can move a derelict ship hundreds of miles ?	what natural forces cause ocean currents that can move a derelict ship hundreds of miles ?
where does bread get its fluffiness ? swiss cheese its holes ?	what conditions do you need to change in order for the bread to become fluffier ? name at least three .	what conditions do you need to change in order for the bread to become fluffier ? name at least three .
many of us love cartoons , most of us grew up reading them or having them read to us . the fact is , cartoons have been around a long time . there are all kinds of cartoons : strip comics , comic books , political cartoons , single-panel cartoons , graphic novels , web comics , animation , caricature , there is something for everyone .	cartoons are considered an art form specific to one time and generation .	cartoons are considered an art form specific to one time and generation .
luckily , buddha discovered the eight-fold path , a sort of program for extinguishing the fires of desire so that we can reach nirvana , an enlightened state of peace , clarity , wisdom , and compassion . the novelist cao xueqin illustrated this buddhist sentiment that romantic love is folly in one of china 's greatest classical novels , `` dream of the red chamber . '' in a subplot , jia rui falls in love with xi-feng who tricks and humiliates him .	which sentiment about romantic love does novelist cao xueqin illustrate in dream of the red chamber ?	which sentiment about romantic love does novelist cao xueqin illustrate in dream of the red chamber ?
and this simplicity may be key to its journey across continents and cultures to become one of the most popular percussion instruments in the world today . the cajon 's story begins in west africa , whose indigenousness people had rich musical traditions centered on drumming and dancing . when many of them were captured and brought to the americas as slaves , they brought this culture with them , but without their native instruments , they had to improvise .	where does the cajon 's story begin ?	where does the cajon 's story begin ?
and this simplicity may be key to its journey across continents and cultures to become one of the most popular percussion instruments in the world today . the cajon 's story begins in west africa , whose indigenousness people had rich musical traditions centered on drumming and dancing . when many of them were captured and brought to the americas as slaves , they brought this culture with them , but without their native instruments , they had to improvise .	what south american culture are we talking about when we discuss the story of the cajon ?	what south american culture are we talking about when we discuss the story of the cajon ?
and this simplicity may be key to its journey across continents and cultures to become one of the most popular percussion instruments in the world today . the cajon 's story begins in west africa , whose indigenousness people had rich musical traditions centered on drumming and dancing . when many of them were captured and brought to the americas as slaves , they brought this culture with them , but without their native instruments , they had to improvise .	what were some obstacles the west african slaves might have had to overcome in order to keep their drumming and dancing traditions alive ?	what were some obstacles the west african slaves might have had to overcome in order to keep their drumming and dancing traditions alive ?
bigger eyes can have larger openings , called pupils , and larger lenses , allowing for more light to be focused on the receptors . while tarsiers scan the nocturnal scene with their enormous peepers , cats use gleaming eyes to do the same . cats ' eyes get their shine from a structure called the tapetum lucidum that sits behind the photoreceptors .	tarsiers have huge eyes because :	tarsiers have huge eyes because :
you might have seen this symbol before , whether it 's as a temporary tattoo or at a chinese temple . it 's called the yin-yang symbol . it comes from taoism , a religion born in china and it has far more meaning than you probably realize .	which part of a teacup is most yin ?	which part of a teacup is most yin ?
you might have seen this symbol before , whether it 's as a temporary tattoo or at a chinese temple . it 's called the yin-yang symbol . it comes from taoism , a religion born in china and it has far more meaning than you probably realize .	you should know your yin from your yang because	you should know your yin from your yang because
you might have seen this symbol before , whether it 's as a temporary tattoo or at a chinese temple . it 's called the yin-yang symbol . it comes from taoism , a religion born in china and it has far more meaning than you probably realize .	from its beginning as a seed to the moment you bite into it , an apple is the result of quite a journey . trace the yin and yang influences in the growth of a piece of fruit : soil , rain , sunshine , photosynthesis , flowering , the tree itself , and anything else you can think of .	from its beginning as a seed to the moment you bite into it , an apple is the result of quite a journey . trace the yin and yang influences in the growth of a piece of fruit : soil , rain , sunshine , photosynthesis , flowering , the tree itself , and anything else you can think of .
you might have seen this symbol before , whether it 's as a temporary tattoo or at a chinese temple . it 's called the yin-yang symbol . it comes from taoism , a religion born in china and it has far more meaning than you probably realize .	describe an imaginary or real person whose yin and yang are out of balance . identify several imbalances .	describe an imaginary or real person whose yin and yang are out of balance . identify several imbalances .
you might have seen this symbol before , whether it 's as a temporary tattoo or at a chinese temple . it 's called the yin-yang symbol . it comes from taoism , a religion born in china and it has far more meaning than you probably realize .	think about your favorite sport . what are the yin and yang forces which , when put together , make the sport so much fun and challenging .	think about your favorite sport . what are the yin and yang forces which , when put together , make the sport so much fun and challenging .
in one poll , 59 % of men and 70 % of women said they would n't go on a date with someone who has bad breath , which may be why americans alone spend $ 1 billion a year on various breath products . fortunately , most bad breath is easily treated . the worst smelling byproducts come from gram-negative bacteria that live in the spaces between gums and teeth and on the back of the tongue .	bad breath comes mainly from the _____ .	bad breath comes mainly from the _____ .
in one poll , 59 % of men and 70 % of women said they would n't go on a date with someone who has bad breath , which may be why americans alone spend $ 1 billion a year on various breath products . fortunately , most bad breath is easily treated . the worst smelling byproducts come from gram-negative bacteria that live in the spaces between gums and teeth and on the back of the tongue .	people who have bad breath _____ .	people who have bad breath _____ .
in one poll , 59 % of men and 70 % of women said they would n't go on a date with someone who has bad breath , which may be why americans alone spend $ 1 billion a year on various breath products . fortunately , most bad breath is easily treated . the worst smelling byproducts come from gram-negative bacteria that live in the spaces between gums and teeth and on the back of the tongue .	bad breath improves when you _____ .	bad breath improves when you _____ .
in one poll , 59 % of men and 70 % of women said they would n't go on a date with someone who has bad breath , which may be why americans alone spend $ 1 billion a year on various breath products . fortunately , most bad breath is easily treated . the worst smelling byproducts come from gram-negative bacteria that live in the spaces between gums and teeth and on the back of the tongue .	the best way to find out if you have bad breath is to _____ .	the best way to find out if you have bad breath is to _____ .
in one poll , 59 % of men and 70 % of women said they would n't go on a date with someone who has bad breath , which may be why americans alone spend $ 1 billion a year on various breath products . fortunately , most bad breath is easily treated . the worst smelling byproducts come from gram-negative bacteria that live in the spaces between gums and teeth and on the back of the tongue .	do you think that some people are more offended by bad breath than others ?	do you think that some people are more offended by bad breath than others ?
marketing takes advantage of the desire to drop weight fast , and be stronger , slimmer , and brighter . and in the big picture , diet plans promising dramatic results , known as fad diets , are just what they seem : too good to be true . so where do diet fads even come from ? while the ancient greeks and romans rallied behind large-scale health regimens centuries earlier , this phenomenon began in earnest in the victorian era with crazes like the vinegar diet and the banting diet . since then , diets have advised us all sorts of things : to excessively chew , to not chew at all , to swallow a grapefruit per meal , non-stop cabbage soup , even consumption of arsenic , or tapeworms .	which diet fad was popular during the victorian era ?	which diet fad was popular during the victorian era ?
plagues use more of this than this . 2 . they kill you quickly or you become immune .	name at least 2 of the 3 key ingredients that can create a plague .	name at least 2 of the 3 key ingredients that can create a plague .
so here are brief rundowns of a few of his best and worst ideas . plato argued that beyond our imperfect world was a perfect unchanging world of forms . forms are the ideal versions of the things and concepts we see around us .	plato created the first ___ in the western world .	plato created the first ___ in the western world .
so here are brief rundowns of a few of his best and worst ideas . plato argued that beyond our imperfect world was a perfect unchanging world of forms . forms are the ideal versions of the things and concepts we see around us .	plato argued that beyond our imperfect and changing world was a realm of :	plato argued that beyond our imperfect and changing world was a realm of :
mysteries of vernacular : yankee , a new england resident or , more generally , a person who lives in or is from the united states . though the origin of yankee is uncertain , this all-american word most likely descended from the dutch moniker janke , a diminutive meaning little jan , or little john . in the 17th century , janke was the common nickname of dutch sailors , pirates in particular . a dutch pirate ship operating in the west indies was even called the yankee .	what does janke mean ?	what does janke mean ?
when the earliest surviving written laws in the mesopotamian code of ur-nammu provided many specifics governing marriage , from punishments for adultery to the legal status of children born to slaves . many ancient civilizations allowed some form of multiple simultaneous marriage . and even today , less than a quarter of the world 's hundreds of different cultures prohibit it .	about how many wives did most common men in polygamous societies have ?	about how many wives did most common men in polygamous societies have ?
when the earliest surviving written laws in the mesopotamian code of ur-nammu provided many specifics governing marriage , from punishments for adultery to the legal status of children born to slaves . many ancient civilizations allowed some form of multiple simultaneous marriage . and even today , less than a quarter of the world 's hundreds of different cultures prohibit it .	what are some of the social problems that allowing multiple simultaneous marriages could create ?	what are some of the social problems that allowing multiple simultaneous marriages could create ?
dance is a language , and social dance is an expression that emerges from a community . a social dance is n't choreographed by any one person . it ca n't be traced to any one moment .	which description ( s ) below best describe social dance ? 1. it is choreographed by one person . 2. it is form of expression from a group . 3. it changes with time and different inputs . 4. it can be traced to one particular moment . 5. it often spreads through communities .	which description ( s ) below best describe social dance ? 1. it is choreographed by one person . 2. it is form of expression from a group . 3. it changes with time and different inputs . 4. it can be traced to one particular moment . 5. it often spreads through communities .
dance is a language , and social dance is an expression that emerges from a community . a social dance is n't choreographed by any one person . it ca n't be traced to any one moment .	participants communicate directly with one another through social dance without ever speaking . give some examples .	participants communicate directly with one another through social dance without ever speaking . give some examples .
answer in : 3 answer in : 2 answer in : 1 at first it might seem like no matter what you do , you 're just a minute or two short of time , but there is a way . the key is to minimize the time wasted by the two slowest people by having them cross together . and because you 'll need to make a couple of return trips with the lantern , you 'll want to have the fastest people available to do so .	who is the slowest out of the four people in the riddle ?	who is the slowest out of the four people in the riddle ?
answer in : 3 answer in : 2 answer in : 1 at first it might seem like no matter what you do , you 're just a minute or two short of time , but there is a way . the key is to minimize the time wasted by the two slowest people by having them cross together . and because you 'll need to make a couple of return trips with the lantern , you 'll want to have the fastest people available to do so .	why does it help to have the two slowest people together ?	why does it help to have the two slowest people together ?
there are certain states that have a long history of voting for a particular party . these are known as `` safe states . '' for the past four election cycles -- in 1996 , 2000 , 2004 and 2008 -- democrats could count on states like oregon , maryland , michigan and massachusetts , whereas the republicans could count on states like mississippi , alabama , kansas and idaho .	what are safe states ?	what are safe states ?
phew ! after all that , it may come as a relief that some languages often leave out the second person pronoun . in languages like romanian and portuguese , the pronoun can be dropped from sentences because it 's clearly implied by the way the verbs are conjugated .	in some languages , the person you are talking to may find it shocking or rude if you use the wrong “ you ” to refer to them . why do you think people may get upset if you use a pronoun that is too formal or too informal ?	in some languages , the person you are talking to may find it shocking or rude if you use the wrong “ you ” to refer to them . why do you think people may get upset if you use a pronoun that is too formal or too informal ?
both industrial and photochemical smog combine manmade pollution with local weather and geography . london 's high humidity made it a prime location for industrial smog . photochemical smog is strongest in urban areas with calm winds and dry , warm , sunny weather . the ultraviolet radiation from sunlight provides the energy necessary to breakdown molecules that contribute to smog formation .	what are 4 characteristics of urban areas with high levels of photochemical smog ?	what are 4 characteristics of urban areas with high levels of photochemical smog ?
cells called electroreceptors buried in the skin allow the fish to constantly sense this field and the changes to it caused by the surroundings or other fish . the peter ’ s elephantnose fish , for example , has an elongated chin called a schnauzenorgan that 's riddled in electroreceptors . that allows it to intercept signals from other fish , judge distances , detect the shape and size of nearby objects , and even determine whether a buried insect is dead or alive .	what is the function of the schnauzenorgan in the peters ' elephantnose fish ?	what is the function of the schnauzenorgan in the peters ' elephantnose fish ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar i 'm going to take you on a journey into some hidden worlds inside your own body using the scanning electron microscope . these microscopes use a beam of electrons to illuminate things that are too small to be seen by the photons of visible light .	what was the most awe-inspiring photo that dee breger shared ? why ?	what was the most awe-inspiring photo that dee breger shared ? why ?
for saturated fats , the story pretty much ends there but not for unsaturated fats . the double bonds in these molecules have a kind of weird property ; they 're rigid . so , that means there are two ways to arrange every double bond .	molecules are	molecules are
so if you learn a little bit about how their brains work , we 're going to learn a lot about how our brains work . i 'm going to put them in some ice water here and then -- audience : ew ! greg gabe : yeah ...	gage demonstrates that dropping a cockroach into ice water causes it to	gage demonstrates that dropping a cockroach into ice water causes it to
would n't it be great if we could be invisible ? ha , right ?	what would a doctor have trouble doing when treating an invisible patient ?	what would a doctor have trouble doing when treating an invisible patient ?
once in the water , nurdles are swiftly carried by currents , ultimately winding up in huge circulating ocean systems called gyres , where they convene to plan their tactics . the earth has five gyres that act as gathering points , but the headquarters of nurdle ocean domination are in the pacific ocean , where the comparative enormity of the gyre and the resulting concentration of pollution is so huge that it 's known as the great pacific garbage patch . here , nurdles have good company .	the largest nurdle headquarters is the great pacific garbage patch , located in :	the largest nurdle headquarters is the great pacific garbage patch , located in :
but what if the monster was not some giant rampaging beast , destroying a city , but just a tiny amount of seaweed with the potential to disrupt entire coastal ecosystems ? this is the story of caulerpa taxifolia , originally a naturally occurring seaweed native to tropical waters . in the 1980s , one strain was found to thrive in colder environments .	the carlsbad detection of caulerpa taxifolia in agua hedionda lagoon was the first known detection in the western hemisphere of this invasive seaweed . we benefited from the years of experience of scientists and coastal managers from mediterranean sea countries . how important is it to collaborate with others , even half a world away , when confronted with environmental challenges and trying to identify realistic solutions ?	the carlsbad detection of caulerpa taxifolia in agua hedionda lagoon was the first known detection in the western hemisphere of this invasive seaweed . we benefited from the years of experience of scientists and coastal managers from mediterranean sea countries . how important is it to collaborate with others , even half a world away , when confronted with environmental challenges and trying to identify realistic solutions ?
but what if the monster was not some giant rampaging beast , destroying a city , but just a tiny amount of seaweed with the potential to disrupt entire coastal ecosystems ? this is the story of caulerpa taxifolia , originally a naturally occurring seaweed native to tropical waters . in the 1980s , one strain was found to thrive in colder environments .	since a small amount of the caulerpa seaweed can be detached and then start growing in a new location things like boat anchors , scuba gear , fishing lines , and even disturbance by hand removal can lead to the unintended spread of this seaweed . what kind of challenges come up when trying to tell people they can no longer enjoy boating , fishing or other recreational activities in an area that has been infested with caulerpa taxifolia ?	since a small amount of the caulerpa seaweed can be detached and then start growing in a new location things like boat anchors , scuba gear , fishing lines , and even disturbance by hand removal can lead to the unintended spread of this seaweed . what kind of challenges come up when trying to tell people they can no longer enjoy boating , fishing or other recreational activities in an area that has been infested with caulerpa taxifolia ?
45 minutes later , just as the other two planes are about to run empty , he meets them at the 315 degree point and transfers 45 kiloliters of fuel to each , leaving 45 for himself . all three planes land at the airport just as their fuel gauges reach zero . as the reporters and photographers cheer , the professor promises his planes will soon be available for commercial flights , just as soon as they figure out how to keep their inflight meals from spilling everywhere .	how much total fuel ( in kiloliters ) is contained within all three airplanes when combined at the beginning of this trip ?	how much total fuel ( in kiloliters ) is contained within all three airplanes when combined at the beginning of this trip ?
45 minutes later , just as the other two planes are about to run empty , he meets them at the 315 degree point and transfers 45 kiloliters of fuel to each , leaving 45 for himself . all three planes land at the airport just as their fuel gauges reach zero . as the reporters and photographers cheer , the professor promises his planes will soon be available for commercial flights , just as soon as they figure out how to keep their inflight meals from spilling everywhere .	calculate how much total fuel was used to complete this mission . show your calculations .	calculate how much total fuel was used to complete this mission . show your calculations .
a little known use of neodymium is that the size and strength of volcanic eruptions can actually be judged from the composition of neodymium isotopes which are present . the first laser pointers were red . they didn ’ t use neodymium , and the green ones have become really quite fashionable among lecturers .	as the professor explained , laser pointers of which color contain neodymium ?	as the professor explained , laser pointers of which color contain neodymium ?
not so surprising - we all love talking about ourselves right ? but it turns out that while 30-40 % of face-to-face conversations involve communicating our own experiences , around 80 % of social media communication is self involved . the same part of your brain related to orgasms , motivation and love are stimulated by your social media use - and even more so when you know you have an audience .	describe the main differences between face to face conversations and social media postings .	describe the main differences between face to face conversations and social media postings .
it 's the fifth largest continent on the planet at nearly twice the size of australia . almost 98 % of anarctica is covered by ice at least one mile in thickness . conditions in antarctica are some of the most extreme in the entire world .	at least 98 % of antarctica is covered in ice at least one mile in thickness .	at least 98 % of antarctica is covered in ice at least one mile in thickness .
mccarthy 's colleagues in the senate censured him and he died less than three years later , probably from alcoholism . mccarthyism ended as well . it had ruined hundreds , if not thousands , of lives and drastically narrowed the american political spectrum .	what was the goal of mccarthyism ?	what was the goal of mccarthyism ?
mccarthy 's colleagues in the senate censured him and he died less than three years later , probably from alcoholism . mccarthyism ended as well . it had ruined hundreds , if not thousands , of lives and drastically narrowed the american political spectrum .	how long did the era of mccarthyism last ?	how long did the era of mccarthyism last ?
mccarthy 's colleagues in the senate censured him and he died less than three years later , probably from alcoholism . mccarthyism ended as well . it had ruined hundreds , if not thousands , of lives and drastically narrowed the american political spectrum .	why did government officials knowingly not oppose mccarthyism ? what was result ?	why did government officials knowingly not oppose mccarthyism ? what was result ?
so when the hammer falls , literally , we will break the glass , the rubidium will just drop into the big bucket of water that we ’ ve got underneath . rubidium is an alkali metal that comes between potassium and caesium and both potassium and caesium are much better known among chemists than rubidium . potassium because it is all over the world , the environment , you have potassium in cells and plants and so on , i mean biological cells .	by which method did the german chemists , robert bunsen and gustav kirchhoff , discover rubidium in 1861 ?	by which method did the german chemists , robert bunsen and gustav kirchhoff , discover rubidium in 1861 ?
so when the hammer falls , literally , we will break the glass , the rubidium will just drop into the big bucket of water that we ’ ve got underneath . rubidium is an alkali metal that comes between potassium and caesium and both potassium and caesium are much better known among chemists than rubidium . potassium because it is all over the world , the environment , you have potassium in cells and plants and so on , i mean biological cells .	rubidium is very similar to another alkali metal . some plants can even incorporate rubidium instead of this other metal when the latter is in short supply . what is this element ?	rubidium is very similar to another alkali metal . some plants can even incorporate rubidium instead of this other metal when the latter is in short supply . what is this element ?
when the french-speaking normans conquered england and became its ruling class , they brought their speech with them , adding a massive amount of french and latin vocabulary to the english language previously spoken there . today , we call that language old english . this is the language of beowulf .	english is a member of the _____ language group .	english is a member of the _____ language group .
when a doorknob , a solid , has static electricity on it , it does n't look or behave any differently . and with the exception of a compass or other magnetic object , we rarely see matter respond to a magnetic field . but put a plasma in an electric field or magnetic field , and you 'll get a very different reaction . because plasmas are charged , electric fields accelerate them , and magnetic fields steer them in circular orbits .	what does a magnetic field do to a charged particle in a plasma ?	what does a magnetic field do to a charged particle in a plasma ?
and by the way , that feast was on the fourth thursday in november , not mid-october as is celebrated in some of these green areas we call not america . anyway squanto was a pretty amazing character and not only because he helped save the pilgrims . he found that almost all of his tribe , the patuxet had been wiped out by disease and eventually settled with the pilgrims on the site of his former village and then died ... of disease because it is always ruining everything .	who helped the pilgrims that landed in plymouth , massachusetts ?	who helped the pilgrims that landed in plymouth , massachusetts ?
so when each votes , they wo n't just be thinking about the current proposal , but about all possible outcomes down the line . and because the rank order is known in advance , each can accurately predict how the others would vote in any situation and adjust their own votes accordingly . because eliza 's last , she has the most outcomes to consider , so let 's start by following her thought process .	how would the situation change if the order of succession was randomly determined instead ?	how would the situation change if the order of succession was randomly determined instead ?
they all experimented with negating the parallel postulate , only to discover that this gave rise to entire alternative geometries . these geometries became collectively known as non-euclidean geometries . we 'll leave the details of these different geometries for another lesson .	what are the two main categories of non-euclidean geometry ?	what are the two main categories of non-euclidean geometry ?
this is a simple sugar , or monosaccharide . glucose , fructose , and galactose are all simple sugars . link two of them together , and you 've got a disaccharide , lactose , maltose , or sucrose .	glucose , fructose and galactose are all types of :	glucose , fructose and galactose are all types of :
as you and bob sit at the silent , clownless party , it occurs to you that the confusion could 've been avoided simply by using another comma after dj . this final comma in a list , placed directly before the main conjunction , such as and , or , or nor , is called the serial comma , or oxford comma . and it has long driven grammar nerds crazy because even major language institutions ca n't agree on whether it should be used .	where is the oxford comma most prevalently used ?	where is the oxford comma most prevalently used ?
as you and bob sit at the silent , clownless party , it occurs to you that the confusion could 've been avoided simply by using another comma after dj . this final comma in a list , placed directly before the main conjunction , such as and , or , or nor , is called the serial comma , or oxford comma . and it has long driven grammar nerds crazy because even major language institutions ca n't agree on whether it should be used .	in which of the following fields is the extra space taken up by an oxford comma a problem ?	in which of the following fields is the extra space taken up by an oxford comma a problem ?
as you and bob sit at the silent , clownless party , it occurs to you that the confusion could 've been avoided simply by using another comma after dj . this final comma in a list , placed directly before the main conjunction , such as and , or , or nor , is called the serial comma , or oxford comma . and it has long driven grammar nerds crazy because even major language institutions ca n't agree on whether it should be used .	what is the common wisdom for the comma ’ s usage ?	what is the common wisdom for the comma ’ s usage ?
as you and bob sit at the silent , clownless party , it occurs to you that the confusion could 've been avoided simply by using another comma after dj . this final comma in a list , placed directly before the main conjunction , such as and , or , or nor , is called the serial comma , or oxford comma . and it has long driven grammar nerds crazy because even major language institutions ca n't agree on whether it should be used .	which of the following institutions does not support the comma ’ s usage ?	which of the following institutions does not support the comma ’ s usage ?
here 's what has to happen for pregnancy to occur after sexual intercourse . sperm must swim up the vagina , through the cervical opening , upwards through the uterus , and into one of the two fallopian tubes .	what has to happen before pregnancy can occur ?	what has to happen before pregnancy can occur ?
today , we annually shower over 5 billion pounds of pesticides across the earth to control these unwanted visitors . the battle against pests , especially insects , has marked agriculture 's long history . records from thousands of years ago suggest that humans actively burned some of their crops after harvest to rid them of pests .	how have pests , especially insects , overcome pesticides so fast ?	how have pests , especially insects , overcome pesticides so fast ?
even if we could avoid all these harmful genetic alterations , not even our own cells could save us . the fact remains that cellular regeneration , the very stuff of life , declines as we age . the dna in our cells is packaged within chromosomes , each of which has two protective regions at the extremities called telomeres .	cellular senescence :	cellular senescence :
most viruses follow this script . the trick with the flu is that its genetic material is n't dna but a similar compound called rna . and rna viruses can mutate much faster .	what is the genetic material of the flu virus ?	what is the genetic material of the flu virus ?
attempts by the government to control kabuki did n't end with bans on the gender or age of performers . the tokugawa military group , or bakufu , was fueled by confucian ideals and often enacted sanctions on costume fabrics , stage weaponry , and the subject matter of the plot . at the same time , kabuki became closely associated with and influenced by bunraku , an elaborate form of puppet theater .	name three sanctions the bakufu placed against kabuki theatres during the tokugawa era .	name three sanctions the bakufu placed against kabuki theatres during the tokugawa era .
in the mid-fifteenth century , fist developed into the verb fisten , to break wind , which eventually lead to the modern word feisty , but that 's another story . in its earliest form , as a variant of fisten , fizzle had a very specific meaning : to break wind without noise . surprisingly , considering this initial definition , by the 1800s , the word fizzle referred instead to a specific sound , rather graphically , to the sputtering or hissing of a gas or liquid being forced out of a narrow opening . the figurative sense of the word , a weak ending , is thus understandable within the context of a flame consuming the last drops of oil in a lantern or a valve drawing out the contents of the bottom of a cask .	do you think of fizzle as onomatopoeic ? what is the difference between sound symbolism and onomatopoeia ?	do you think of fizzle as onomatopoeic ? what is the difference between sound symbolism and onomatopoeia ?
so this is magnesium metal , but the magnesium metal here is not the ribbon which we normally see in perhaps , scientific labs or perhaps in school labs , this is a very , very fine powder of magnesium , so what we are going to do in a moment is bring on a really very powerful torch , a gas flame and we are going to see what happens when we sprinkle a little of this material into the flame . magnesium is also very important in all our lives , because magnesium is found in the green pigments in the leaves of all plants , in chlorophyll . chlorophyll is an organic molecule , carbon , hydrogen and nitrogen and in the middle there is an atom of magnesium , and it is chlorophyll which catches the sunlight and transfers it eventually to cause the reaction of carbon dioxide and water to make all the sugars and other things in the plant . if that didn ’ t happen none of us would be alive , because we all rely either directly or indirectly on plants , to give us the energy to live .	what is the name of the organic molecule that gives the green color to plants , and which has one magnesium atom in the middle of a structure composed of carbon , hydrogen and nitrogen atoms ?	what is the name of the organic molecule that gives the green color to plants , and which has one magnesium atom in the middle of a structure composed of carbon , hydrogen and nitrogen atoms ?
but bonobos show us the other side of the coin . while chimpanzees are dominated by big , scary guys , bonobo society is run by empowered females . these guys have really worked something out , since this leads to a highly tolerant society where fatal violence has not been observed yet . but unfortunately , bonobos are the least understood of the great apes .	would the idea of playing to solve problems work in our society ?	would the idea of playing to solve problems work in our society ?
he was born between the sixth and fourth century b.c. , the son of a wealthy king in the himalayan foothills of nepal . it was prophesied that the young buddha — then called siddhartha gautama — would either become the emperor of india or a very holy man . since siddhartha ’ s father desperately wanted him to become the former , he kept the child isolated in a palace .	according to buddhism , a prophecy foretold that when he grew up , the buddha would become either a holy man , or ...	according to buddhism , a prophecy foretold that when he grew up , the buddha would become either a holy man , or ...
in this case , 21 . the three sets of spirals in any pineapple are pretty much always adjacent fibonacci numbers . the rare mutant cases might show lucas numbers or something , but it will always be three adjacent numbers in a series .	what 5 numbers does the fibonacci sequence begin with ?	what 5 numbers does the fibonacci sequence begin with ?
the indus valley civilization was located in the flood plain of the indus and sarawati rivers , and it was about the best place in the world to have an ancient civilization because the rivers flooded very reliably twice a year , which meant that it had the most available calories per acre of pretty much anywhere on the planet . we know the indus valley civilization flourished a long time ago . probably around 3000 bce .	what are the names of the two major cities in the indus valley ?	what are the names of the two major cities in the indus valley ?
you may think you know the words that sit plainly in black on your page , but do n't be fooled . some words are capable of taking on different guises , masquerading as nouns , verbs and adjectives that alter their meanings entirely . this seeming superpower is called lexical ambiguity .	here 's another one , except in this case the words are easier to tell apart because some of them are spelt differently . explain what you think this sentence means : `` rose rose to put rose roes on her rows of roses . ''	here 's another one , except in this case the words are easier to tell apart because some of them are spelt differently . explain what you think this sentence means : `` rose rose to put rose roes on her rows of roses . ''
each atom is attracted to the shared electrons in between them , and this attraction is called a covalent bond . the proteins and dna in our bodies , for example , are held together largely by these covalent bonds . some atoms can covalently bond with just one other atom , others with many more .	most biological molecules , like dna or proteins , are held together mostly by ________ .	most biological molecules , like dna or proteins , are held together mostly by ________ .
why is it so difficult to cure cancer ? we 've harnessed electricity , sequenced the human genome , and eradicated small pox .	which of the following is a true statement ?	which of the following is a true statement ?
there 's nothing wrong with you . what you are is a multipotentialite . ( laughter ) ( applause ) a multipotentialite is someone with many interests and creative pursuits .	define emilie 's term 'multipotentialite . '	define emilie 's term 'multipotentialite . '
in return , flowering plants are an abundant and diverse food source for pollinators . for instance , fossil records suggest bees may have evolved from wasps that gave up hunting after they acquired a taste for nectar . plant pollinator networks are everywhere .	fossil records suggest bees may have evolved from ________ that gave up hunting after they acquired a taste for nectar .	fossil records suggest bees may have evolved from ________ that gave up hunting after they acquired a taste for nectar .
by leading physicists to think deeply about the foundations of quantum physics , it led to further elaboration of the theory and helped launch research into subjects like quantum information , now a thriving field with the potential to develop computers of unparalleled power . unfortunately , the randomness of the measured results prevents science fiction scenarios , like using entangled particles to send messages faster than light . so relativity is safe , for now .	if two people ( traditionally called “ alice ” and “ bob ” ) share a bunch of entangled particles , it might seem like this would let them send messages faster than light , since whenever alice measures her particle in state “ 0 , ” bob also finds his in state “ 0. ” explain how even though the correlation between states is perfect , this is not a tool for communicating faster than light .	if two people ( traditionally called “ alice ” and “ bob ” ) share a bunch of entangled particles , it might seem like this would let them send messages faster than light , since whenever alice measures her particle in state “ 0 , ” bob also finds his in state “ 0. ” explain how even though the correlation between states is perfect , this is not a tool for communicating faster than light .
it exerts over 550 times the pressure of mike tyson 's strongest punch to inject venom into the victim . some jellyfish stings barely tingle , but others cause severe skin damage . the venom of one box jellyfish can kill a human in under five minutes , making it one of the most potent poisons of any animal in the world .	as the climate changes , jellyfish are thriving in some places and disappearing in others . why is an understanding of jellyfish important ?	as the climate changes , jellyfish are thriving in some places and disappearing in others . why is an understanding of jellyfish important ?
europeans , you know , they just do n't feel that way . germans are willing to support poor german people , but they do n't want to support greek people with their tax dollars . so they 're kind of like half-way integrated in a way that does n't really work .	when did the greek crisis start ?	when did the greek crisis start ?
but we might have something inside us that can outlast these physical limitations : deoxyribonucleic acid . dna already stores our biological information . from eye color to skin tone , it programs our entire bodies .	dna storage techniques are mainly designed to preserve information for the future , but can you think of any practical use for them in the present ?	dna storage techniques are mainly designed to preserve information for the future , but can you think of any practical use for them in the present ?
but we might have something inside us that can outlast these physical limitations : deoxyribonucleic acid . dna already stores our biological information . from eye color to skin tone , it programs our entire bodies .	if the world created a dna time vessel to carry on humanity ’ s legacy , what should be included ?	if the world created a dna time vessel to carry on humanity ’ s legacy , what should be included ?
these days , with suitable burial land running out in high-population areas , purchasing private gravesites can be costly , and many people ca n't afford simple burials . even cremation , the second most common burial practice in the world , comes with a high cost . as for the question of running out of space , the issue is n't so much about total land in the world as it is that large populations cluster together within cities .	what is the second most common burial method ?	what is the second most common burial method ?
it turns out that we 're fighting one of the most evolutionarily-conserved learning processes currently known in science , one that 's conserved back to the most basic nervous systems known to man . this reward-based learning process is called positive and negative reinforcement , and basically goes like this . we see some food that looks good , our brain says , `` calories !	briefly describe the concept of positive and negative reinforcement .	briefly describe the concept of positive and negative reinforcement .
we 've decided to make a new video about aluminium because it 's a long time over five years since we made the first one and ... we did n't say very much . aluminium is a surprisingly abundand element . if you look at this periodic table here , where the area of the different elements gives you a rough idea of the abundance you can see that aluminium is one of the most abundant metals up there with sodium , magnesium and calcium .	in nature , aluminium is most frequently found bonded to which element ?	in nature , aluminium is most frequently found bonded to which element ?
we 've decided to make a new video about aluminium because it 's a long time over five years since we made the first one and ... we did n't say very much . aluminium is a surprisingly abundand element . if you look at this periodic table here , where the area of the different elements gives you a rough idea of the abundance you can see that aluminium is one of the most abundant metals up there with sodium , magnesium and calcium .	if you reverse the letters in the symbol al , you get the symbol of another element , la . interestingly , the symbols of the elements immediately below al in group 13 can also be reversed to give another element , for example ga/ag . how many similar pairs of elements can you find in the periodic table ?	if you reverse the letters in the symbol al , you get the symbol of another element , la . interestingly , the symbols of the elements immediately below al in group 13 can also be reversed to give another element , for example ga/ag . how many similar pairs of elements can you find in the periodic table ?
but is immortality really a good thing ? to a ten-year-old boy , one year is the same as 10 % of his life . to his forty-year-old mother , one year is merely 2.5 % of her life . the same year , 365 days , can feel differently to different people . if we live until we 're 82 , that 's about 30,000 days . if this boy lives for 30,000 years , a year to him could feel like a day .	an 82-year-old man has lived approximately how many days ?	an 82-year-old man has lived approximately how many days ?
he applied planck 's idea to light itself , saying that light , which everybody knew was a wave , is really a stream of photons , each with a discrete amount of energy . einstein himself called this the only truly revolutionary thing he did , but it explains the way light shining on a metal surface knocks loose electrons . even people who hated the idea had to agree that it works brilliantly .	what did einstein call the only truly revolutionary thing that he did ?	what did einstein call the only truly revolutionary thing that he did ?
as it 's produced , bile is funneled into a small container below the liver , called the gallbladder , before being trickled into the intestine to help break down fats , destroy microbes , and neutralize extra stomach acid . bile also helps carry other toxins and byproducts from the liver out of the body . so as you can see , the liver is an extremely efficient industrial site , performing multiple tasks that support each other .	list some of the substances the liver manufactures , and why you think these may be useful for the body .	list some of the substances the liver manufactures , and why you think these may be useful for the body .
these appointed helpers assist the president in making important decisions within their area of expertise , such as defense , the treasury , and homeland security . the executive branch also appoints government officials , commands the armed forces , and meets with leaders of other nations . all that combined is a lot of work for a lot of people .	which branch of the government commands the us military ?	which branch of the government commands the us military ?
in response , it produces bicarbonate , mucus , and phospholipids called prostaglandins to maintain the integrity of its own lining . this delicate balance is constantly regulated and referred to as mucosal defense . since the mid-1800s , doctors thought stress alone caused most stomach ulcers .	in the context of peptic ulcer disease , mucosal defense refers to which concept ?	in the context of peptic ulcer disease , mucosal defense refers to which concept ?
sociologists robert merton and paul lazarsfeld set out to learn how unprecedented exposure to wartime propaganda was affecting the public . instead of polling large numbers of people with straightforward questions and quantifiable answers , the researchers conducted in-person interviews , sometimes with small groups , engaging them in more open discussions . later , this method was picked up by the advertising industry with the help of consultants , like austrian-born psychologist ernest dichter , who first coined the term focus group .	in a focus group , people are sometimes asked to do exercises like imagining that a product magically becomes a person in a party , and then asked to describe what this person does or says to the other people in the party . how do you think this type of exercise can provide us information about what people think about products ?	in a focus group , people are sometimes asked to do exercises like imagining that a product magically becomes a person in a party , and then asked to describe what this person does or says to the other people in the party . how do you think this type of exercise can provide us information about what people think about products ?
in the 1930s , the so-called father of parapsychology , joseph banks rhine , tested in the lab whether people could use telekinesis to make a dice roll the way they wanted it to . but afterwards , scientists could n't replicate his results , and since replication is key to proving an idea , that was a problem . aside from scientists , there are also countless self-proclaimed telekinetics , but all have been exposed as tricksters , or ca n't perform under conditions where they 're not totally in control , suggesting that they manipulate the situation to get the results they want .	why do you think it ’ s so important that scientists are able to replicate each other ’ s experiments ?	why do you think it ’ s so important that scientists are able to replicate each other ’ s experiments ?
this phenomenon is n't limited to dogs . consider the placebo effect , in which a pill with no active substances brings about a response similar to a pill with a substance present . what changes here is our reaction to our ailment , such as perceiving less pain and not the ailment itself .	the placebo effect works by altering which of the following :	the placebo effect works by altering which of the following :
but there 's a problem . light is incredibly fast . if we were only able to calculate time to the nearest second , every location on earth , and far beyond , would seem to be the same distance from the satellite .	how fast does light travel ?	how fast does light travel ?
for instance , why might one twin get heart disease at 55 , while her sister runs marathons in perfect health ? nature versus nurture has a lot to do with it , but a deeper related answer can be found within something called epigenetics . that 's the study of how dna interacts with the multitude of smaller molecules found within cells , which can activate and deactivate genes . if you think of dna as a recipe book , those molecules are largely what determine what gets cooked when . they are n't making any conscious choices themselves , rather their presence and concentration within cells makes the difference .	epigenetics describe the interaction of dna with :	epigenetics describe the interaction of dna with :
crickets , some people say , have an aroma of popcorn . farming insects for food also has less environmental impact than livestock farms do because insects emit far less greenhouse gas and use up less space , water , and food . socioeconomically , bug production could uplift people in developing countries since insect farms can be small scale , highly productive , and yet relatively inexpensive to keep . insects can also be turned into more sustainable food for livestock and can be reared on organic waste , like vegetable peelings , that might otherwise just end up rotting in landfills .	how could insect farming address some of the problems associated with food insecurity ?	how could insect farming address some of the problems associated with food insecurity ?
think about the purpose of currency , which is to be exchanged for goods and services . if the total amount of currency in circulation increases faster than the total value of goods and services in the economy , then each individual piece will be able to buy a smaller portion of those things than before . this is called inflation .	if the total amount of currency circulating increases faster than the total value of goods and services in the economy that is referred to as :	if the total amount of currency circulating increases faster than the total value of goods and services in the economy that is referred to as :
ani 's epic journey begins with his death . his body is mummified by a team of priests who remove every organ except the heart , the seat of emotion , memory , and intelligence . it 's then stuffed with a salt called natron and wrapped in resin-soaked linen .	during the mummification process , every organ was removed except the :	during the mummification process , every organ was removed except the :
having considered all the other scenarios , amaro knows that if he goes overboard , the decision comes down to bart , which would be bad news for charlotte and eliza . so he offers them one coin each , keeping 98 for himself . bart and daniel vote nay , but charlotte and eliza grudgingly vote yarr knowing that the alternative would be worse for them .	which of the following is not one of the conditions ?	which of the following is not one of the conditions ?
variety may be the spice of life , but brevity is its bread and butter . so when it comes to $ 10 words , save your money and buy a scrabble board .	this video makes the case that $ 10 words are a bad idea because they	this video makes the case that $ 10 words are a bad idea because they
variety may be the spice of life , but brevity is its bread and butter . so when it comes to $ 10 words , save your money and buy a scrabble board .	each of these $ 10 words comes from a different discipline : thrombophlebitis , collateral damage and coulis . which discipline does each belong to ? what does each mean , in plain terms ? and are the motivations for using $ 10 words the same or not , in each case ?	each of these $ 10 words comes from a different discipline : thrombophlebitis , collateral damage and coulis . which discipline does each belong to ? what does each mean , in plain terms ? and are the motivations for using $ 10 words the same or not , in each case ?
perhaps medieval scholars were attempting to create an alphabet for a language that was spoken but not yet written . in that case , the voynich manuscript might be like the rongorongo script invented on easter island , now unreadable after the culture that made it collapsed . though no one can read the voynich manuscript , that has n't stopped people from guessing what it might say .	the script used in the voynich manuscript contains :	the script used in the voynich manuscript contains :
imagery , intrigue , emotion : each introduction makes you want to read more . if you have an assignment to write a literary analysis , your introduction will be just as important . there will be four elements in your essay : your introduction , thesis statement , analysis and conclusion . if you begin writing a literary analysis with the introduction , you may be discouraged .	what is not one of the four elements that a literary analysis should include ?	what is not one of the four elements that a literary analysis should include ?
so terbium , just like europium , is often used in television screens and various types of displays and where it comes in is that it gives green and yellow colours , which in contrast to the red and blue which europium gives you , gives you the full selection that you need to give colour images . so ytterby gruva , ytterby mine , what a great place , the snow is falling . this is designated ytterby mine , a historical landmark for the discovery of four periodic elements : yttrium , terbium , erbium , and ytterbium .	as pete explained from snow-covered ytterby , how can the phosphorescence of terbium be applied to make safer hospital diagnoses ?	as pete explained from snow-covered ytterby , how can the phosphorescence of terbium be applied to make safer hospital diagnoses ?
these improvements can be expensive , so managers must decide what the acceptable uncertainty for each project is . however , investments in precision can take us beyond what was previously possible , even as far as mars . it may surprise you that nasa does not know exactly where their probes are going to touch down on another planet . predicting where they will land requires extensive calculations fed by measurements that do n't always have a precise answer .	which is not one of the reasons why nasa is able to more precisely land probes on mars compare to when they first started to ?	which is not one of the reasons why nasa is able to more precisely land probes on mars compare to when they first started to ?
though you may not realize it , the ground below you is traveling across the earth at a rate of about 10 cm/year , or the speed at which your fingernails grow . this is due to plate tectonics , or the large-scale movement of earth 's continents . the motion occurs within the top two layers of the earth 's mantle , the lithosphere and asthenosphere . the lithosphere , which includes the crust and uppermost mantle , comprises the land around you .	what are the different layers of the earth , and how do they interact ?	what are the different layers of the earth , and how do they interact ?
meet our chemist , harriet . she has a chemical reaction that needs to occur more quickly . a chemist has some processes at her disposal that can help her speed up her reaction , and she knows of five ways .	this analogy of a dance representing chemical reactions can help make understanding reactions easier , but it does not represent actual chemical reactions . list three examples of actual chemical reactions and for each example explain how the reaction can be manipulated to increase the reaction rate .	this analogy of a dance representing chemical reactions can help make understanding reactions easier , but it does not represent actual chemical reactions . list three examples of actual chemical reactions and for each example explain how the reaction can be manipulated to increase the reaction rate .
meet our chemist , harriet . she has a chemical reaction that needs to occur more quickly . a chemist has some processes at her disposal that can help her speed up her reaction , and she knows of five ways .	explain how a chemical catalyst helps change the rate of a chemical reaction and give two examples of actual chemical catalysis .	explain how a chemical catalyst helps change the rate of a chemical reaction and give two examples of actual chemical catalysis .
meet our chemist , harriet . she has a chemical reaction that needs to occur more quickly . a chemist has some processes at her disposal that can help her speed up her reaction , and she knows of five ways .	in what ways is being able to control the rate of a chemical reaction useful to the following chemistry-rich professions : chemical engineer , physician , chef ?	in what ways is being able to control the rate of a chemical reaction useful to the following chemistry-rich professions : chemical engineer , physician , chef ?
this takes the receiver 5 seconds to run those 50 yards . so his average speed , in any given time , is 10 yards/second . the linebacker tries to keep up , but his overall speed is slower , he only goes 35 yards in those 5 seconds , so his average speed is only 7 yards/second .	you drive 200 miles in 3 hours before stopping for 30 minutes for lunch and gas . after lunch you travel 150 miles in an hour and a half . what was your average speed for the trip ?	you drive 200 miles in 3 hours before stopping for 30 minutes for lunch and gas . after lunch you travel 150 miles in an hour and a half . what was your average speed for the trip ?
here , researchers work to unravel mysteries of evolution , cosmic origins , and the history of our planet . one museum alone may have millions of specimens . the american museum of natural history in new york city has over 32,000,000 in its collection . let 's take a look at just one of them .	what percent of artifacts found within a natural history museum are actually on display ?	what percent of artifacts found within a natural history museum are actually on display ?
here , researchers work to unravel mysteries of evolution , cosmic origins , and the history of our planet . one museum alone may have millions of specimens . the american museum of natural history in new york city has over 32,000,000 in its collection . let 's take a look at just one of them .	what is a topic that a scientist in a natural history museum might study ?	what is a topic that a scientist in a natural history museum might study ?
here , researchers work to unravel mysteries of evolution , cosmic origins , and the history of our planet . one museum alone may have millions of specimens . the american museum of natural history in new york city has over 32,000,000 in its collection . let 's take a look at just one of them .	what was discovered , with the help of a natural history museum , about the pesticide ddt ?	what was discovered , with the help of a natural history museum , about the pesticide ddt ?
take the quoll , one of the world 's smallest marsupials , which weighs only 18 milligrams at birth , the equivalent of about 30 sugar grains . the kangaroo , another marsupial , gives birth to a single jelly bean-sized baby at a time . the baby crawls down the middle of the mother 's three vaginas , then must climb up to the pouch , where she spends the next 6-11 months suckling .	when a kangaroo gives birth to her offspring it is the size of a ( n ) __________ before it first enters her pouch .	when a kangaroo gives birth to her offspring it is the size of a ( n ) __________ before it first enters her pouch .
but diderot kept a step ahead of being shut down , smuggling proofs outside france for publication , and getting help from allies in the french regime , including the king 's mistress , madame de pompadour , and the royal librarian and censor , malesherbes , who tipped diderot off to impending raids , and even hid diderot 's papers at his dad 's house . still , he faced years of difficulty . d'alembert dropped out .	today , some fields and industries have entire bodies of knowledge that recycle every couple years or faster . if you had to spend thirty years on one reference work starting today , what topics would you focus on ?	today , some fields and industries have entire bodies of knowledge that recycle every couple years or faster . if you had to spend thirty years on one reference work starting today , what topics would you focus on ?
the story of the human eye begins with a simple light spot , such as the one found in single-celled organisms , like euglena . this is a cluster of light-sensitive proteins linked to the organism 's flagellum , activating when it finds light and , therefore , food . a more complex version of this light spot can be found in the flat worm , planaria .	which organism demonstrates the use of simple light spots ?	which organism demonstrates the use of simple light spots ?
by then , larger , more varied ensembles were the rule with woodwinds , brass , and percussion to help tell the tale . but vivaldi pulled it off with just one violin , strings , and a harpsichord . unlike his contemporary bach , vivaldi was n't much interested in complicated fugues .	in what country did vivaldi live ?	in what country did vivaldi live ?
in other words , some people are born with better regulating and repair mechanisms than others . and in some cases , mutations may render brca1 ineffective . when this happens , cells with damaged dna are allowed to divide .	there may be hundreds of mutations in the brca1 gene that influence its ability to regulate cell division . why might some of these mutations be more likely to result in the formation of cancer than others ?	there may be hundreds of mutations in the brca1 gene that influence its ability to regulate cell division . why might some of these mutations be more likely to result in the formation of cancer than others ?
instead of one or the other , it 's likely that our civilization will continue to develop along both kardashev and barrow scales . precision on a smaller scale lets us use energy more efficiently and unlocks new energy sources , like nuclear fusion , or even antimatter . and this increased energy lets us expand and build on a larger scale .	in comparison to the energy that earth receives from the sun , our total energy consumption represents about :	in comparison to the energy that earth receives from the sun , our total energy consumption represents about :
instead of one or the other , it 's likely that our civilization will continue to develop along both kardashev and barrow scales . precision on a smaller scale lets us use energy more efficiently and unlocks new energy sources , like nuclear fusion , or even antimatter . and this increased energy lets us expand and build on a larger scale .	what other ways than energy and control of small scale technologies could be used to measure technological progress universally ?	what other ways than energy and control of small scale technologies could be used to measure technological progress universally ?
without a doubt , the most exciting scientific observation of 2012 was the discovery of a new particle at the cern laboratory that could be the higgs boson , a particle named after physicist peter higgs . the higgs field is thought to give mass to fundamental , subatomic particles like the quarks and leptons that make up ordinary matter .	the higgs particle was discovered at	the higgs particle was discovered at
let 's start with a basic definition . power is the ability to make others do what you would have them do . of course , this plays out in all arenas of life , from family to the workplace to our relationships .	the ability to make others do what you would have them do is called _____ .	the ability to make others do what you would have them do is called _____ .
and you can have pillars growing from the floor called stalagmites . this is a stalagmite from turkey . one of my friends called hugh was really naughty .	what can be seen inside the blobby structure of the stalagmite that the professor has in his own minerals collection ?	what can be seen inside the blobby structure of the stalagmite that the professor has in his own minerals collection ?
the space station continues to serve as an incredible model for international collaboration . this year , two people began a one-year stay on the iss , allowing scientists to study the long-term physical and psychological effects of being in space , which would prove useful for increasingly ambitious space travel , like trips to mars . over its lifetime , we 've learned an immense amount scientifically , but also about our capacity to work together and accomplish truly remarkable acts .	how many people have ever been aboard the iss over its lifetime ?	how many people have ever been aboard the iss over its lifetime ?
mary was a prominent romantic , and shared the movement 's appreciation for nature , emotion , and the purity of art . two years after mary released `` frankenstein '' , percy reimagined the plight of prometheus in his lyrical drama , `` prometheus unbound . '' the romantics used these mythical references to signal the purity of the ancient world in contrast to modernity .	mary shelley used prometheus to represent :	mary shelley used prometheus to represent :
this is another aptly named protein , and we 'll get to why in just a second . risc strips these small chunks of double-stranded rna in half , using the single strand to target matching mrna , looking for pieces that fit together like two halves of a sandwich . when it finds the matching piece of mrna , risc 's slicer protein slices it up . the cell then realizes there are odd , strangely sized pieces of rna floating around and destroys them , preventing the mrna from being turned into protein .	risc stands for :	risc stands for :
the tense sets the overall frame of reference in the past , but within that , there are many options . your friends might say a creature attacked their boat , that 's the past simple , the most general aspect , which gives no further clarification . they were sleeping when it happened , a continuous process underway at that point . they might also tell you they had departed from nantucket to describe an action completed even earlier .	in the sentence `` they were sleeping when the creature attacked the boat , '' we use the past continuous form `` were sleeping '' to show that the heroes :	in the sentence `` they were sleeping when the creature attacked the boat , '' we use the past continuous form `` were sleeping '' to show that the heroes :
if these things are lost or stolen , you can facilitate replacement . now these are some rather obvious things . remember , when you 're under stress , the brain releases cortisol . cortisol is toxic , and it causes cloudy thinking .	what are some of the things that your brain does when operating under stress ?	what are some of the things that your brain does when operating under stress ?
well the now what really depends on how your specific body metabolizes caffeine . the average half-life of caffeine in the human body is about six hours . so this means that if you have two hundred milligrams of caffeine in your average cup of coffee at 9am in the morning , then 6 hours later half of that will be left , so at 3pm you will have a hundred milligrams of caffeine left , and then another 6 hours later you will have half of the hundred you will have half of the hundred so you will have 50 milligrams of caffeine left at 9 o'clock at night .	what is the half-life of caffeine in the average human body ?	what is the half-life of caffeine in the average human body ?
as in any good experiment , this step confirms that the test is working properly . whether the ab1 enzymes never saw hcg , or they 're extras because zone 1 is overstocked with them , all the unbound ab1 enzymes picked up in zone 1 should end up here and activate more dye . so if no pattern appears , that indicates that the test was faulty .	which zone does not contain any dye molecules waiting to be activated ?	which zone does not contain any dye molecules waiting to be activated ?
after one month they were 5 % happier and after six months they were 9 % happier . just from one week of writing a journal . a similar study with participants with heart disease found that keeping a gratitude journal increased their heart health and quality of sleep , perhaps because it reduces stress . “ counting your blessings ” quite literally makes people happier and healthier .	3. keeping a gratitude journal can	3. keeping a gratitude journal can
the oven emits microwave radiation , which is absorbed by the molecules , especially those of water . they move around faster and faster , bumping into each other and increasing the food 's temperature and thermal energy . the greenhouse effect is another example .	when molecules move faster their thermal energy ______ and their temperature _____ .	when molecules move faster their thermal energy ______ and their temperature _____ .
in fact , if you do n't continuously expose your muscles to some resistance , they will shrink , a process known as muscular atrophy . in contrast , exposing the muscle to a high-degree of tension , especially while the muscle is lengthening , also called an eccentric contraction , generates effective conditions for new growth . however , muscles rely on more than just activity to grow .	the amount of tension a muscle can produce is the result of the :	the amount of tension a muscle can produce is the result of the :
in fact , if you do n't continuously expose your muscles to some resistance , they will shrink , a process known as muscular atrophy . in contrast , exposing the muscle to a high-degree of tension , especially while the muscle is lengthening , also called an eccentric contraction , generates effective conditions for new growth . however , muscles rely on more than just activity to grow .	which of the following are not an important factor contributing to muscle growth :	which of the following are not an important factor contributing to muscle growth :
everyday physics may start to look a bit more like the strange quantum world . quantum teleportation may even progress so far , that one day your cat will escape to a safer galaxy , where there are no physicists and no boxes .	systems can be entangled even if they are too far apart from each other for communication to explain the effect . in light of this , think of an underlying mechanism that could explain entanglement .	systems can be entangled even if they are too far apart from each other for communication to explain the effect . in light of this , think of an underlying mechanism that could explain entanglement .
it happens in the matrix when neo freezes bullets midair , and it 's a skill that yoda has honed to a t. but is telekinesis real , or just as fictional as carrie , yoda and neo combined ? to investigate , we need to evaluate telekinetic claims through a scientific lens using the scientific method . telekinesis is part of the discipline called parapsychology , in which researchers study psychic phenomena .	what do you understand by the term ‘ scientific method ’ ?	what do you understand by the term ‘ scientific method ’ ?
it happens in the matrix when neo freezes bullets midair , and it 's a skill that yoda has honed to a t. but is telekinesis real , or just as fictional as carrie , yoda and neo combined ? to investigate , we need to evaluate telekinetic claims through a scientific lens using the scientific method . telekinesis is part of the discipline called parapsychology , in which researchers study psychic phenomena .	true or false : to this day , no one has been able to prove that they have telekinetic powers .	true or false : to this day , no one has been able to prove that they have telekinetic powers .
here 's the key part . the solution nearest the wall spins faster than the solution closer to the middle . that difference in velocity creates sheer stresses that repeatedly stretch and contract the proteins until eventually they snap back into their native shapes and stay there .	explain why the solution closer to the walls of the tube spins faster .	explain why the solution closer to the walls of the tube spins faster .
the answer lies in their genes . for humans , the genetic information that determines our physical traits is stored in 23 pairs of chromosomes in the nucleus of every cell . these chromosomes are made up of proteins and long , coiled strands of dna .	how many chromosomes do most humans have in each cell ( not including eggs or sperm ) ?	how many chromosomes do most humans have in each cell ( not including eggs or sperm ) ?
but this still does n't add up to 100 % . the remaining 68 % of the energy density of the universe is made up of dark energy , which is even more mysterious than dark matter . this dark energy does n't behave like any other substance we know at all and acts more like anti-gravity force .	dark energy is causing the expansion of the universe to :	dark energy is causing the expansion of the universe to :
but this still does n't add up to 100 % . the remaining 68 % of the energy density of the universe is made up of dark energy , which is even more mysterious than dark matter . this dark energy does n't behave like any other substance we know at all and acts more like anti-gravity force .	how much of the universe is made of dark energy ?	how much of the universe is made of dark energy ?
but this still does n't add up to 100 % . the remaining 68 % of the energy density of the universe is made up of dark energy , which is even more mysterious than dark matter . this dark energy does n't behave like any other substance we know at all and acts more like anti-gravity force .	people often confuse dark matter and dark energy , but they are fundamentally very different . what is the difference between them ?	people often confuse dark matter and dark energy , but they are fundamentally very different . what is the difference between them ?
it simply means thinking about a debate you want to have on your terms over an issue that captures the essence of the change you want . this is what the activists pushing for a $ 15 minimum wage in the u.s. have done . they do n't pretend that $ 15 by itself can fix inequality , but with this ambitious and contentious goal , which they achieved first in seattle and then beyond , they have forced a bigger debate about economic justice and prosperity .	describe how the fight for a $ 15 minimum wage has actually fueled a larger discussion about economic justice and prosperity .	describe how the fight for a $ 15 minimum wage has actually fueled a larger discussion about economic justice and prosperity .
as for the slaves themselves , they faced unimaginable brutality . after being marched to slave forts on the coast , shaved to prevent lice , and branded , they were loaded onto ships bound for the americas . about 20 % of them would never see land again .	once africans boarded the slave ships for the journey to the americas , what percentage did not survive the six to eight week voyage ?	once africans boarded the slave ships for the journey to the americas , what percentage did not survive the six to eight week voyage ?
consistent measurements are such an integral part of our daily lives that it 's hard to appreciate what a major accomplishment for humanity they 've been . and just as it arose from a political revolution , the metric system remains crucial for the scientific revolutions to come .	what circumstances during the french revolution permitted the metric system to gain a foothold ?	what circumstances during the french revolution permitted the metric system to gain a foothold ?
by-and-large it ’ s not true . however , actinium is one of them which might do that because the element itself glows blue in the dark . and actinium is actually more dangerous than plutonium , and plutonium was once described as the most deadly and toxic substance known to man . so it ’ s pretty dangerous .	actinium can be synthesized in the nuclear laboratory , but it can be found in nature too . in which type of ores can we find actinium ?	actinium can be synthesized in the nuclear laboratory , but it can be found in nature too . in which type of ores can we find actinium ?
a ream is 500 . well , a mole is really the same thing . for a chemist , a mole conjures up the number 6.02 times 10 to the 23rd , not a fuzzy little animal .	the mole is a really helpful way to count really small things . are there other methods we use to help us count ? do we have a number that helps us group really large things ? give some examples ( not listed in the video ) of how we group items on a daily basis .	the mole is a really helpful way to count really small things . are there other methods we use to help us count ? do we have a number that helps us group really large things ? give some examples ( not listed in the video ) of how we group items on a daily basis .
cyanine is some classical word for blue . so they really have blue blood . and these hemocyanin use two atoms of copper in each molecule to transport the oxygen around the body of the crab or lobster .	some types of crustaceans , such as crabs and lobsters , have genuinely blue blood due to the metalloprotein found in it . instead of hemoglobin found in human blood , crustaceans have copper atoms in their blood . what is the name of this metalloprotein ?	some types of crustaceans , such as crabs and lobsters , have genuinely blue blood due to the metalloprotein found in it . instead of hemoglobin found in human blood , crustaceans have copper atoms in their blood . what is the name of this metalloprotein ?
yet , instead of relabeling everything the other way around , people have decided to hold on to franklin 's vocabulary as a matter of habit and convention . while acknowledging the discovery of electrons , they kept franklin 's flow of electrical fluid , renaming it : conventional current . the electron has become the salmon of electricity , swimming upstream in a ghostly river of conventional current .	look at a textbook or webpage that you have used to study 'electricity ' . look at a few of the paragraphs and consider if they have used the words in a helpful way . for instance , did they say 'flow of charge ' or 'flow of current ' ? which is correct ? did they use 'electricity ' in many different ways ? what do you think they meant in each case ?	look at a textbook or webpage that you have used to study 'electricity ' . look at a few of the paragraphs and consider if they have used the words in a helpful way . for instance , did they say 'flow of charge ' or 'flow of current ' ? which is correct ? did they use 'electricity ' in many different ways ? what do you think they meant in each case ?
then there are chemical peels , which use compounds like salicylic acid or retinoic acid to perform what ’ s basically a controlled injury to the top layer of skin , killing the top layer of cells . the dead skin cells peel off , revealing healthy skin cells underneath . luckily , most people grow out of the acne-ridden years of puberty , though some people will continue to have acne well into their 40s and 50s .	is your skin an organ ?	is your skin an organ ?
nickel is now used quite a lot in the plating industry for plating materials , iron and steel in particular , and then often you would put chromium or something on top . used to be used for plating the inside of tins for peas and things like that . and sometimes the sulphur from inside the peas would be released by bacteria and would react to find strange black spots across the insides of the tin .	the professor explained that nickel was used to plate the inside of food tins . what did he say could be found as black spots inside the tin ?	the professor explained that nickel was used to plate the inside of food tins . what did he say could be found as black spots inside the tin ?
to do this , we need to make a batch of special letters , each with a distinct color . a mixture of these special colored letters and enzymes are then added to the genome we 're trying to read . at each spot on the genome , one of the special letters binds to its opposite letter , so we now have a double-stranded piece of dna with a colorful spot at each letter .	scientists use special colored letters and enzymes to learn what the sequence of a cluster of identical pieces of dna is . how ?	scientists use special colored letters and enzymes to learn what the sequence of a cluster of identical pieces of dna is . how ?
thus , any number could be written as such a ratio . 5 as 5/1 , 0.5 as 1/2 and so on . even an infinitely extending decimal like this could be expressed exactly as 34/45 .	which of these numbers is/are rational : a ) 3 b ) 12.1 c ) √5	which of these numbers is/are rational : a ) 3 b ) 12.1 c ) √5
thus , any number could be written as such a ratio . 5 as 5/1 , 0.5 as 1/2 and so on . even an infinitely extending decimal like this could be expressed exactly as 34/45 .	which of these numbers is/are irrational : a ) √2 b ) 1/0 c ) 4.656565	which of these numbers is/are irrational : a ) √2 b ) 1/0 c ) 4.656565
it slows them down and stops them from traveling at the speed of light . but most of your mass doesn ’ t come from the higgs mechanism . and neither does all of this stuff that you see around you .	where does most of the mass from objects come from ?	where does most of the mass from objects come from ?
so you guys have done the hard work , do you want to wind off the last of it . and a million digits is there ! there !	as stated , the `` point size '' used to print the digits in this video is 8 , with each digit being 1/15th of an inch across . now imagine the team want to roll out the first million digits of pi all the way to the `` nearby '' star alpha centauri , at a distance of 4.37 light-years . but this time they can use only one million digits ( not add more digits ) , so clearly the point size will need to be scaled up . keeping all things in proportion , what will the new point size be ? how wide is each digit on this piece of paper which stretches through space ?	as stated , the `` point size '' used to print the digits in this video is 8 , with each digit being 1/15th of an inch across . now imagine the team want to roll out the first million digits of pi all the way to the `` nearby '' star alpha centauri , at a distance of 4.37 light-years . but this time they can use only one million digits ( not add more digits ) , so clearly the point size will need to be scaled up . keeping all things in proportion , what will the new point size be ? how wide is each digit on this piece of paper which stretches through space ?
so you guys have done the hard work , do you want to wind off the last of it . and a million digits is there ! there !	what is the probability that your birthday dd/mm/yy is found within the first million digits of pi ? how does that probability change if your birthday is represented using dd/mm/yyyy ( four digits for the year ) ?	what is the probability that your birthday dd/mm/yy is found within the first million digits of pi ? how does that probability change if your birthday is represented using dd/mm/yyyy ( four digits for the year ) ?
in the future we 're gon na get pretty gaiety of heart-ish about war . anyway , as an actual war , the war of 1812 was something of a farce . let 's go to the thought bubble .	when was the war of 1812 started ?	when was the war of 1812 started ?
in the future we 're gon na get pretty gaiety of heart-ish about war . anyway , as an actual war , the war of 1812 was something of a farce . let 's go to the thought bubble .	were the actions of americans ( in choosing to go to war ) during the war of 1812 justified ? why or why not ?	were the actions of americans ( in choosing to go to war ) during the war of 1812 justified ? why or why not ?
and while omegas are good fats for your brain , long-term consumption of other fats , like trans and saturated fats , may compromise brain health . meanwhile , proteins and amino acids , the building block nutrients of growth and development , manipulate how we feel and behave . amino acids contain the precursors to neurotransmitters , the chemical messengers that carry signals between neurons , affecting things like mood , sleep , attentiveness , and weight .	how do proteins and amino acids affect how we think and behave ?	how do proteins and amino acids affect how we think and behave ?
why ? historians have three theories . one : conquest !	by 1500 bce , the once vast and powerful civilization began to decline , and at some point it suddenly ended . historians are uncertain why this area ’ s power declined . name two possible theories .	by 1500 bce , the once vast and powerful civilization began to decline , and at some point it suddenly ended . historians are uncertain why this area ’ s power declined . name two possible theories .
how good are you at managing money ? what about reading people 's emotions ? how healthy are you compared to other people you know ?	too many people rate themselves as superior to their peers , violating the rules of mathematics . what other ways do people show themselves to be overconfident or underconfident in themselves ?	too many people rate themselves as superior to their peers , violating the rules of mathematics . what other ways do people show themselves to be overconfident or underconfident in themselves ?
-so nobelium is perhaps best known for the fact , that it is quite controversial in terms of its naming so it was originally discovered and called nobelium and there is another research group disputeed these findings , they claimmed that they named it and gave a different name , then eventually , because it has been named as nobelium for such a long time , people just settled on that . - but he had nothing to do with nobelium . - no no , nobelium was first discovered , first detected , i 'm not sure how many years , but probably nearly a century after his death . .	where was the discovery of nobelium first announced in 1957 ?	where was the discovery of nobelium first announced in 1957 ?
embryonic stem cells are created from leftover embryos that are willingly donated by patients from fertility clinics . unlike tissue-specific stem cells , embryonic stem cells are pluripotent . this means that they can be grown into any kind of tissue in the body .	adult stem cells are…	adult stem cells are…
embryonic stem cells are created from leftover embryos that are willingly donated by patients from fertility clinics . unlike tissue-specific stem cells , embryonic stem cells are pluripotent . this means that they can be grown into any kind of tissue in the body .	pluripotent stem cells are different from tissue-specific adult stem cells in what way ?	pluripotent stem cells are different from tissue-specific adult stem cells in what way ?
embryonic stem cells are created from leftover embryos that are willingly donated by patients from fertility clinics . unlike tissue-specific stem cells , embryonic stem cells are pluripotent . this means that they can be grown into any kind of tissue in the body .	what is the source of embryos used for embryonic stem cell research ? what would have been the outcome for these cells had they not been used for research ? why do some people consider this to be unethical while others do not ?	what is the source of embryos used for embryonic stem cell research ? what would have been the outcome for these cells had they not been used for research ? why do some people consider this to be unethical while others do not ?
now , we can do this , but it 's really hard for us . it 's called stereotactic drug delivery . you have to put a patient in a big metal frame to hold them still , you need cat scans to know where you 're going , so you look at the picture and say , `` are we going the right way ? ''	what is it called when doctors , using a long needle , deliver medicines directly into the human brain ?	what is it called when doctors , using a long needle , deliver medicines directly into the human brain ?
the result was the original barbie doll . so how does a focus group work ? first , companies recruit between six and ten participants according to specific criteria that meet their research objectives .	how many participants are generally recruited for a standard focus group ?	how many participants are generally recruited for a standard focus group ?
the result was the original barbie doll . so how does a focus group work ? first , companies recruit between six and ten participants according to specific criteria that meet their research objectives .	who usually guides the discussion in a focus group ?	who usually guides the discussion in a focus group ?
the result was the original barbie doll . so how does a focus group work ? first , companies recruit between six and ten participants according to specific criteria that meet their research objectives .	researchers observing the focus group commonly do this by a :	researchers observing the focus group commonly do this by a :
the result was the original barbie doll . so how does a focus group work ? first , companies recruit between six and ten participants according to specific criteria that meet their research objectives .	which of the following would be a better question for a focus group and why ? how many headphones do you own ? why would you buy more than one headphone ?	which of the following would be a better question for a focus group and why ? how many headphones do you own ? why would you buy more than one headphone ?
in others , they didn ’ t bring up medication at all . and the doctors seemed to take patients more seriously if they mentioned seeing the paxil commercial . they were more likely to refer patients to a mental health consultation , and much more likely to prescribe an antidepressant .	in one study mentioned , doctors took patients claiming to suffer from depression more seriously if they did what ?	in one study mentioned , doctors took patients claiming to suffer from depression more seriously if they did what ?
element 113 is , again , labelled with this new systematic method for the artificial elements . so you have un-un-trium or it might be ununtrium , i don ’ t know , which stands for 113 . and you might actually ask , ‘ why should anybody want to make a few atoms of these artificial elements ? ’ and i think the answer , i don ’ t know definitely , is that there have been predictions that although the elements at this part of the periodic table are very unstable , that there may , at heavier elements , be one or two elements which are surprisingly stable , might last for very much longer . they are called ‘ islands of stability ’ that have been predicted , and so people are working systematically to see whether in fact there are one or two elements that are in fact really quite stable even though they are super heavy .	what is the name for the class of heavy and unstable elements like ununtrium ?	what is the name for the class of heavy and unstable elements like ununtrium ?
be at the forefront of other 's minds when opportunities arise . you do n't want to be that person who only shows up when he needs something . be the one that people think of and want to reach out to when a new opportunity presents itself .	who is the last person that made a lasting impression on you ?	who is the last person that made a lasting impression on you ?
by the mid-90s , the golden age of arcade games was coming to an end , and the home game console was gaining in popularity . while arcade games continued to decline in sales over the years , the popularity of video games was merely beginning , and we 'll talk about that and a lot more in part two of a brief history of video games .	who uses video games ?	who uses video games ?
by the mid-90s , the golden age of arcade games was coming to an end , and the home game console was gaining in popularity . while arcade games continued to decline in sales over the years , the popularity of video games was merely beginning , and we 'll talk about that and a lot more in part two of a brief history of video games .	what kind of a person was most likely to develop an interest in video games in the 50s , 60s and 70s ? why ?	what kind of a person was most likely to develop an interest in video games in the 50s , 60s and 70s ? why ?
by the mid-90s , the golden age of arcade games was coming to an end , and the home game console was gaining in popularity . while arcade games continued to decline in sales over the years , the popularity of video games was merely beginning , and we 'll talk about that and a lot more in part two of a brief history of video games .	it took a while for video games to catch on . what factors do you think contribute to whether or not a new technology catches on ?	it took a while for video games to catch on . what factors do you think contribute to whether or not a new technology catches on ?
ani stands before a large golden scale where the jackal-headed god anubis is weighing his heart against a pure ostrich feather . ani was a real person , a scribe from the egyptian city of thebes who lived in the 13th century bce . and depicted here is a scene from his book of the dead , a 78-foot papyrus scroll designed to help him attain immortality .	ani was a theban scribe who lived in the :	ani was a theban scribe who lived in the :
ani stands before a large golden scale where the jackal-headed god anubis is weighing his heart against a pure ostrich feather . ani was a real person , a scribe from the egyptian city of thebes who lived in the 13th century bce . and depicted here is a scene from his book of the dead , a 78-foot papyrus scroll designed to help him attain immortality .	explain the ways in which a person demonstrates virtue and righteousness in the hall of ma ’ at .	explain the ways in which a person demonstrates virtue and righteousness in the hall of ma ’ at .
everybody has obstacles , a disability , a hurdle . we face a choice : let the obstacle overcome you or overcome the obstacle . maybe some of you have heard of jim abbott .	steven also said that everyone has their own set of unique obstacles to overcome , some of which are obvious , while others are less apparent . what is a visible obstacle you must overcome ? how about a more obscure obstacle ?	steven also said that everyone has their own set of unique obstacles to overcome , some of which are obvious , while others are less apparent . what is a visible obstacle you must overcome ? how about a more obscure obstacle ?
the lack of red blood cells means that muscles do n't get enough oxygen , the reduced number of platelets is not sufficient to repair wounds , and the dearth of functional white blood cells impairs the immune system , increasing the risk of infections . to restore the normal function of the blood , leukemic cells have to be eliminated . but because leukemias are not solid tumors , they ca n't be removed surgically .	what is the function of platelets ?	what is the function of platelets ?
the solution , they think , lies in finding microbes in nature that can produce the kinds of cellulase enzymes that we need . this process of searching for species in nature that can produce valuable products is called bioprospecting . to test whether or not a sample of microbes can break down cellulose effectively , researchers first grow the microbe in a test tube .	what is bioprospecting ?	what is bioprospecting ?
shrink all that down so that it fits in the palm of your hand , and you 'd have something equivalent to a modern hard drive , an object that can likely hold more information than your local library . so how does it store so much information in such a small space ? at the heart of every hard drive is a stack of high-speed spinning discs with a recording head flying over each surface .	hard drives use magnetic film as a storage medium . what are other ways to store a large amount of data in a small space ? compare their advantage or disadvantage against each other .	hard drives use magnetic film as a storage medium . what are other ways to store a large amount of data in a small space ? compare their advantage or disadvantage against each other .
are nerves simply the wires in the body that conduct electricity , like the wires in the walls of your home or in your computer ? this is an analogy often made , but the reality is that nerves have a much more complex job in the body . they are not just the wires , but the cells that are the sensors , detectors of the external and internal world , the transducers that convert information to electrical impulses , the wires that transmit these impulses , the transistors that gate the information and turn up or down the volume- and finally , the activators that take that information and cause it to have an effect on other organs .	nerves are often compared to the wiring of computers or homes . why is this a good analogy ? why is it incomplete ?	nerves are often compared to the wiring of computers or homes . why is this a good analogy ? why is it incomplete ?
without light , life as we know it seems impossible . that 's why in 1844 , the naturalist edward forbes wrote his azoic theory , azoic , meaning without animals . forbes was sure that nothing could survive below 600 meters on account of the lack of light .	the “ azoic theory ” states that :	the “ azoic theory ” states that :
but seeking relief from the cramped conditions they 're in , they soon start moving upwards towards the roomier situation at the surface . this is how temperature drives a shift of water molecules from high to low concentrations , towards equilibrium . but sea water is made up of more than just h2o .	are water molecules in cold water moving rapidly ?	are water molecules in cold water moving rapidly ?
even if that man was one of your closest friends and allies ? these were the questions haunting roman senator marcus junius brutus in 44 bce , the year julius caesar would be assassinated . opposing unchecked power was n't just a political matter for brutus ; it was a personal one .	which position was permanently granted to julius caesar in 44 bce ?	which position was permanently granted to julius caesar in 44 bce ?
ah-ha ! so , winter happens when the earth is further away from the sun ! well , no , not so fast .	the earth is closest to the sun during the month of :	the earth is closest to the sun during the month of :
the wick ignites the gunpowder and the energy takes the easiest exit from the canister , launching the firework high into the sky . the flame then makes its way through the firework 's encasing and the same reaction occurs high above our heads . so , while the chinese alchemists never found the compound for eternal life , they did find something that would go on to shape all of civilization , something that has caused many tragic moments in human history , and yet still gives us hope when we look up in celebration at the colorful night sky .	what does sulfur do in the combustion reaction ?	what does sulfur do in the combustion reaction ?
that 's because these properties lend surprising stability and remarkable characteristics to some exotic phases of matter in the delicate quantum world . one example is called a topological insulator . imagine a film of electrons .	topological insulator is a material that conducts electricity ____ .	topological insulator is a material that conducts electricity ____ .
that 's because these properties lend surprising stability and remarkable characteristics to some exotic phases of matter in the delicate quantum world . one example is called a topological insulator . imagine a film of electrons .	why is the topological insulator special ?	why is the topological insulator special ?
he mapped out where each of the deceased had lived and found that 73 of them resided close to the water pump on broad street . dr . snow strongly recommended shutting down the pump , and because he knew how unpopular germ theory was , he suggested that cholera was spread through a poison in the water instead of microorganisms , when presenting his case to governmental officials . they were unconvinced , but agreed to shut down the pump as an extra precaution .	why did n't governmental officials believe dr. john snow 's theory that the contaminated water was the source of cholera 's spread ?	why did n't governmental officials believe dr. john snow 's theory that the contaminated water was the source of cholera 's spread ?
and for a thousand years , the fate of europe depended on them . constantinople was designed to be the center of the world . when the frontiers of the roman empire began to crumble in the 4th century , the capital was moved to the cultured , wealthy , and still stable east .	in what ways was constantinople ‘ designed to be the center of the world ’ ? how did constantine make sure that his new city was more prestigious than any other ?	in what ways was constantinople ‘ designed to be the center of the world ’ ? how did constantine make sure that his new city was more prestigious than any other ?
and for a thousand years , the fate of europe depended on them . constantinople was designed to be the center of the world . when the frontiers of the roman empire began to crumble in the 4th century , the capital was moved to the cultured , wealthy , and still stable east .	the most formidable part of constantinople ’ s defenses was	the most formidable part of constantinople ’ s defenses was
and for a thousand years , the fate of europe depended on them . constantinople was designed to be the center of the world . when the frontiers of the roman empire began to crumble in the 4th century , the capital was moved to the cultured , wealthy , and still stable east .	the fall of constantinople	the fall of constantinople
for exactly that reason , photons do n't win the supernova race to earth . neutrinos do . here 's why .	what percentage of energy from a supernova explosion is expelled as neutrinos ?	what percentage of energy from a supernova explosion is expelled as neutrinos ?
if you plan on catching rays while splashing in a river or the ocean , keep in mind that carbon-based chemical sunscreens can harm marine life . take coral reefs , for example . although they cover less than 1 % of the earth 's underwater surface , they 're home to nearly 25 % of all fish species , making them the most diverse and productive marine ecosystems .	why should you care about coral reefs if you do n't live in close proximity to one ?	why should you care about coral reefs if you do n't live in close proximity to one ?
but over 400 years after his death , tycho still had a few surprises up his sleeve . when his body was exhumed and studied in 2010 , the legendary gold and silver nose was nowhere to be found , with chemical traces suggesting that he wore a more casual brass nose instead . tycho 's mustache hair was also found to contain unusually high levels of toxic mercury . was it from a medicine used to treat his bladder infection ?	what highly toxic substance was found in brahe ’ s body when he was exhumed ?	what highly toxic substance was found in brahe ’ s body when he was exhumed ?
luckily , however , throughout history , the majority of sunken cities were not submerged by a single cataclysmic event , but by a combination of more gradual processes . for instance , pavlopetri , the oldest known sunken city , was built on the southern coastline of greece 5,000 years ago . it 's an example of a city that was submerged due to what is called isostatic sea level change .	what can we learn about our planet and about ancient cultures from studying a sunken city ?	what can we learn about our planet and about ancient cultures from studying a sunken city ?
[ go project films ] [ when a town runs dry ] [ ♪ music ♪ ] my grandfather started the farm . and we 've been farming here ever since .	describe the occupations of the three main characters in the film .	describe the occupations of the three main characters in the film .
[ music ] for thousands of years , humans , and plants and animals long before that , have been using frozen “ sky water ” to keep warm . which sort of doesn ’ t make sense . because snow is cool .	which of these techniques is not used to make an igloo warmer ?	which of these techniques is not used to make an igloo warmer ?
the once unlikely partnerships of graffiti artists with traditional museums and brands , have brought these artists out of the underground and into the spotlight . although graffiti is linked to destruction , it 's also a medium of unrestricted artistic expression . today , the debate about the boundary between defacing and beautifying continues .	what is it about graffiti that often makes it a more powerful form of expression than words alone ?	what is it about graffiti that often makes it a more powerful form of expression than words alone ?
with them , we have a compact , elegant expression . sometimes , as with equals , these symbols communicate meaning through form . many , however , are arbitrary .	the meaning of mathematical symbols is	the meaning of mathematical symbols is
the similar looking eyes of cephalopods , which evolved independently , have a front-facing retina , allowing them to see without a blind spot . other creatures ' eyes display different adaptations . anableps , the so called four-eyed fish , have eyes divided in two sections for looking above and under water , perfect for spotting both predators and prey .	which one of these eyes is the most `` advanced '' ?	which one of these eyes is the most `` advanced '' ?
the point is , is that it 's just fun to make stuff and if you 've got a really good idea , you could probably do it . now , there are different styles of making things . there 's do it yourself and that 's like , `` well , i 'm going to fix the brakes on my car or put siding on my house , '' and that 's an interesting kind of diy .	which is not a style of making things that gurstelle mentions ?	which is not a style of making things that gurstelle mentions ?
the earliest object that we think of as a book is the codex , a stack of pages bound along one edge . but the real turning point in book history was johannes gutenberg 's printing press in the mid-15th century . the concept of moveable type had been invented much earlier in eastern culture , but the introduction of gutenberg 's press had a profound effect .	who invented the printing press ?	who invented the printing press ?
you 'll need more panels . more panels , please ! okay , in each panel , andrew 's in a slightly different place .	to create a flipbook from a stack of panels such that the camera follows a moving object we must :	to create a flipbook from a stack of panels such that the camera follows a moving object we must :
in his admission , he owns his statements , delving into his personal emotions and motivations . but the use of personal pronouns is just one indicator of deception . let 's look at another example from former senator and u.s. presidential candidate john edwards : `` i only know that the apparent father has said publicly that he is the father of the baby .	think about a famous liar in history . are there any language cues you can use to spot the deception ?	think about a famous liar in history . are there any language cues you can use to spot the deception ?
and that is no easy task . it takes about two years of training for already fluent bilingual professionals to expand their vocabulary and master the skills necessary to become a conference interpreter . to get used to the unnatural task of speaking while they listen , students shadow speakers and repeat their every word exactly as heard in the same language .	how long does someone who is already fully bilingual have to train to become a conference interpreter ?	how long does someone who is already fully bilingual have to train to become a conference interpreter ?
or it could be hostile . searching for planets that might have life means staring into a great abyss . we 'll likely have no clear knowledge of the evolutionary stage , sentience , character , or intentions of the first form of life we discover .	astronomers look for planets that might have climates that are warm enough for liquid water to flow on their surfaces , like it does on the earth . what else does life need to survive on earth ?	astronomers look for planets that might have climates that are warm enough for liquid water to flow on their surfaces , like it does on the earth . what else does life need to survive on earth ?
a spectacular hodgepodge of zoo , lecture hall , wax museum , theater , and freak show that was known for its eclectic residents , such as bears , elephants , acrobats , giants , siamese twins , a fiji mermaid , and a bearded lady , along with a host of modern machinery and scientific instruments . museums open to the public are a relatively new phenomenon . before barnum , the first public museums were only accessible by the upper and middle classes , and only on certain days .	during the 1700s many museums opened their doors to the general public for the first time . what could be some contributing factors to museums opening up to the public ?	during the 1700s many museums opened their doors to the general public for the first time . what could be some contributing factors to museums opening up to the public ?
but what if it becomes a worldwide craze ? enter the twist . it 's no surprise that the twist can be traced back to the 19th century , brought to america from the congo during slavery .	watch the twist , the jerk , and the monkey . wordless communication is being shared between the participants . in your opinion , what is being “ said ” or conveyed ?	watch the twist , the jerk , and the monkey . wordless communication is being shared between the participants . in your opinion , what is being “ said ” or conveyed ?
once the parents have been selected , they have to wait until the trees bloom in the spring . the breeder takes the pollen from one bloom , called the father , and transfers it by hand to the other parent bloom , called the mother , through a process called cross-pollination . once the mother bloom turns into an apple , the seeds are collected and then planted .	from the context of the video , define and describe cross pollination and why it is done .	from the context of the video , define and describe cross pollination and why it is done .
so how can you tell whether the water you have access to , whether from a tap or otherwise , is drinkable ? firstly , too much turbidity , trace organic compounds , or high-density heavy metals like arsenic , chromium , or lead , mean that the water is unsuitable for consumption . a lot of contaminants , like lead or arsenic , wo n't be obvious without tests , but some clues , like cloudiness , brown or yellow coloration , a foul odor , or an excessive chlorine smell can indicate the need to investigate further .	from the context of the lesson , define the following terms : leaching , runoff , turbidity .	from the context of the lesson , define the following terms : leaching , runoff , turbidity .
if you just make them play , especially with our street leagues , the way we do the teaching for hiv and aids gives them time to play soccer . [ ♪ native hip-hop music ♪ ] those are tools for them to be better people , to stay away from things that could destroy their lives . [ ♪ native hip-hop music ♪ ] after we 've done the program , we also assess the change in their attitudes .	titie knows that soccer can help kids stay away from “ things that could destroy their lives. ” how can soccer keep the kids in her neighborhood away from trouble , including theft and prostitution ?	titie knows that soccer can help kids stay away from “ things that could destroy their lives. ” how can soccer keep the kids in her neighborhood away from trouble , including theft and prostitution ?
but the elephantnose and other weakly electric fish do n't produce enough electricity to attack their prey . that ability belongs to the strongly electric fish , of which there are only a handful of species . the most powerful strongly electric fish is the electric knife fish , more commonly known as the electric eel . three electric organs span almost its entire two-meter body .	which of these species is classified as a strongly electric fish ?	which of these species is classified as a strongly electric fish ?
you do . as with any kind of writing , you learn to express yourself , speak up in a voice that 's authentic . organize your ideas , then organize other people . practice consensus building . practice conflict . as with writing , it 's all about practice .	speaking up in an authentic voice , organizing your ideas and people , practicing consensus and conflict skills , and adapting are all part of :	speaking up in an authentic voice , organizing your ideas and people , practicing consensus and conflict skills , and adapting are all part of :
you do . as with any kind of writing , you learn to express yourself , speak up in a voice that 's authentic . organize your ideas , then organize other people . practice consensus building . practice conflict . as with writing , it 's all about practice .	speaking up in an authentic voice , organizing your ideas and people , practicing consensus and conflict skills , and adapting are all part of _____ .	speaking up in an authentic voice , organizing your ideas and people , practicing consensus and conflict skills , and adapting are all part of _____ .
the electrical storm eventually exhausts and immobilizes the prey , and the electric eel can swallow its meal alive . the other two strongly electric fish are the electric catfish , which can unleash 350 volts with an electric organ that occupies most of its torso , and the electric ray , with kidney-shaped electric organs on either side of its head that produce as much as 220 volts . there is one mystery in the world of electric fish : why do n't they electrocute themselves ?	how many electric organs do electric eels have ?	how many electric organs do electric eels have ?
are you familiar with the word symbiosis ? it 's a fancy term for a partnership between two different species , such as bees and flowers . in a symbiosis , both species depend on each other . i want to tell you about a remarkable symbiosis between a little bird , the clark 's nutcracker , and a big tree , the whitebark pine .	flowering plants have a symbiotic relationship with honey bees and bumble bees . what are other examples of symbiosis in nature ?	flowering plants have a symbiotic relationship with honey bees and bumble bees . what are other examples of symbiosis in nature ?
long before epic fireworks displays , chemists in china invented the key ingredient that propels those bright lights into the sky . that invention was what we now call gunpowder . our story begins back in ancient china in the mid-ninth century where early chinese alchemists were trying to create a potion for immortality .	the discovery of gunpowder , like many other discoveries , was found by accident . research another notable discovery in a field that most interests you . explain how it unfolded .	the discovery of gunpowder , like many other discoveries , was found by accident . research another notable discovery in a field that most interests you . explain how it unfolded .
long before epic fireworks displays , chemists in china invented the key ingredient that propels those bright lights into the sky . that invention was what we now call gunpowder . our story begins back in ancient china in the mid-ninth century where early chinese alchemists were trying to create a potion for immortality .	we now understand that gunpowder needs oxygen to combust . do you think gunpowder can combust in outer space ? explain .	we now understand that gunpowder needs oxygen to combust . do you think gunpowder can combust in outer space ? explain .
long before epic fireworks displays , chemists in china invented the key ingredient that propels those bright lights into the sky . that invention was what we now call gunpowder . our story begins back in ancient china in the mid-ninth century where early chinese alchemists were trying to create a potion for immortality .	which of these is not a component of gunpowder ?	which of these is not a component of gunpowder ?
long before epic fireworks displays , chemists in china invented the key ingredient that propels those bright lights into the sky . that invention was what we now call gunpowder . our story begins back in ancient china in the mid-ninth century where early chinese alchemists were trying to create a potion for immortality .	where does the combustion of gunpowder get a majority of its oxygen ?	where does the combustion of gunpowder get a majority of its oxygen ?
but jefferson 's box of bones did n't come from a lion . they came from an extinct giant sloth . prehistoric ground sloths first appeared around 35 million years ago .	since sloths move so slowly , algae grow on their fur . in addition to algae , sloth fur is home to beetles , cockroaches , fungi , and moths . how does a sloth ’ s body act as an ecosystem ? what forms of symbiosis occur ?	since sloths move so slowly , algae grow on their fur . in addition to algae , sloth fur is home to beetles , cockroaches , fungi , and moths . how does a sloth ’ s body act as an ecosystem ? what forms of symbiosis occur ?
as lucius leaves with his family , the shops are open as the population goes about its business . the streets are full of itinerant traders selling trinkets and people bustling from place to place . large wagons are not allowed in the city until after the ninth hour but the streets are still crowded .	the streets of ancient rome were filled with itinerant traders . describe how you imagine that kind of environment . how do you think the traders gained access to goods ? if you were a trader , what would you sell ?	the streets of ancient rome were filled with itinerant traders . describe how you imagine that kind of environment . how do you think the traders gained access to goods ? if you were a trader , what would you sell ?
if a picture is worth a thousand words , the mosaics from the next several centuries have the most to say not only about their biblical themes , but also the byzantine emperors who commissioned them , often depicted along with christ . but beneath their loud and clear voices , one hears the haunting echoes of the damaged and missing mosaics and icons , desecrated and looted during the latin occupation in the fourth crusade . within the floor , the tomb inscription of enrico dandolo , the venetian ruler who commanded the campaign , is a stark reminder of those 57 years that hagia sophia spent as a roman catholic church before returning to its orthodox roots upon the byzantine reconquest .	during the 4th crusade of the latin occupation ________ .	during the 4th crusade of the latin occupation ________ .
the important thing about units is that once we 've made a new unit , we can treat it just like we did the old unit . we can compose composed units , and we can partition partitioned units . think about toaster pastries .	the speaker claims that composed units are more commonly a standard size than partitioned units are . do you agree ? brainstorm a list of composed units and a list of partitioned units . for which units do you know the standard size ?	the speaker claims that composed units are more commonly a standard size than partitioned units are . do you agree ? brainstorm a list of composed units and a list of partitioned units . for which units do you know the standard size ?
and indeed , the skeletal remains of black death victims found in london show telltale signs of malnutrition and prior illness . the destruction caused by the black death changed humanity in two important ways . on a societal level , the rapid loss of population led to important changes in europe 's economic conditions .	what caused the black death ?	what caused the black death ?
and indeed , the skeletal remains of black death victims found in london show telltale signs of malnutrition and prior illness . the destruction caused by the black death changed humanity in two important ways . on a societal level , the rapid loss of population led to important changes in europe 's economic conditions .	the black death was the second major epidemic of its kind . what was the first known epidemic of the disease that also caused the black death ?	the black death was the second major epidemic of its kind . what was the first known epidemic of the disease that also caused the black death ?
and indeed , the skeletal remains of black death victims found in london show telltale signs of malnutrition and prior illness . the destruction caused by the black death changed humanity in two important ways . on a societal level , the rapid loss of population led to important changes in europe 's economic conditions .	in what ways could the black death have led to improvements in health in surviving populations ?	in what ways could the black death have led to improvements in health in surviving populations ?
policymaking is an effort to freeze and perpetuate a particular flow of power . policy is power frozen . law number three : power compounds . power begets more power , and so does powerlessness .	choose the three sources of power you think are most valuable . explain your choices .	choose the three sources of power you think are most valuable . explain your choices .
applause so that is absolutely fantastic , and now the very quick process of rolling it all back up again before an aeroplane lands . brady : believe it or not we printed all million digits of pi using about eight millilitres of ink . there , that 's what 8ml looks like .	the amount of ink used in this video is just 8.16 millilitres and the paper roll weighs 20kg . if the team wants to wrap a new piece of pi around the earth 's equator ( 40,075km ) , how many digits will they now require ( assuming the printed numbers stay the same size ) ? how many gallons of ink will be needed ? and what will the new paper roll weigh ?	the amount of ink used in this video is just 8.16 millilitres and the paper roll weighs 20kg . if the team wants to wrap a new piece of pi around the earth 's equator ( 40,075km ) , how many digits will they now require ( assuming the printed numbers stay the same size ) ? how many gallons of ink will be needed ? and what will the new paper roll weigh ?
9:00 : return after all that adventure , the hero returns to his ordinary world . 10:00 : new life this quest has changed the hero ; he has outgrown his old life . 11:00 : resolution all the tangled plot lines get straightened out .	when does the hero realize that he/she is changed ( or has outgrown his/her old life ) ?	when does the hero realize that he/she is changed ( or has outgrown his/her old life ) ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby mysteries of vernacular : earwig , an insect , generally classified within the order < i > dermaptera < /i > . the common name of the insects we know as earwigs is exactly that , common , and is based mainly in folklore .	where might you find an earwig ?	where might you find an earwig ?
first , all these organisms are made of one or more cells , and every cell of every living thing on earth contains all the information it takes to create and duplicate and make variations of itself . that information is stored in a very long but quite simple double molecule called dna , or deoxyribonucleic acid . and the dna of every living organism is made of chains of four smaller molecules called nucleotides .	dna , although a very simple molecule , can be quite confusing . attempt to explain the parts of dna and how they fit together . what do you think is most confusing about the construction of dna ?	dna , although a very simple molecule , can be quite confusing . attempt to explain the parts of dna and how they fit together . what do you think is most confusing about the construction of dna ?
first , all these organisms are made of one or more cells , and every cell of every living thing on earth contains all the information it takes to create and duplicate and make variations of itself . that information is stored in a very long but quite simple double molecule called dna , or deoxyribonucleic acid . and the dna of every living organism is made of chains of four smaller molecules called nucleotides .	the secret of life . the double helix . the building block of life . deoxyribonucleic acid . these are all names for what is most commonly known as dna . if you had to rename the molecule , what would you call it and why ? explain why dna has so many names .	the secret of life . the double helix . the building block of life . deoxyribonucleic acid . these are all names for what is most commonly known as dna . if you had to rename the molecule , what would you call it and why ? explain why dna has so many names .
it is about identities we just assume that we have without thinking too much about them . but our responses to questions of identity and origin have substantial social and political importance . we see the wars , the rages of identity , going on all around us .	why does bhatt think our responses to questions of identity and origin have substantial social and political importance ?	why does bhatt think our responses to questions of identity and origin have substantial social and political importance ?
you 'll never have that third spiral be not a spiral , but just a straight line going up a pineapple . yet , when we look at spongebob 's supposed pineapple under the sea , it clearly has lines of pineapple things going straight up . it clearly has bilateral symmetry .	what is the huge clue that spongebob 's pineapple is mathematically impossible ?	what is the huge clue that spongebob 's pineapple is mathematically impossible ?
when used in every day life , the word symmetry represents vague notions of beauty , harmony and balance . in math and science , symmetry has a different , and very specific , meaning . in this technical sense , a symmetry is the property of an object .	in math and science , a symmetry is the property of ________ .	in math and science , a symmetry is the property of ________ .
separating the seeds from the cotton lint was tedious and time consuming . working by hand , a slave could clean about a pound of cotton a day . but the industrial revolution was underway , and the demand was increasing .	according to davis , a person could clean how much cotton by hand in a day ?	according to davis , a person could clean how much cotton by hand in a day ?
long before descartes famously declared , `` i think , therefore i am , '' and long after that , scientists and philosophers alike have puzzled over what they call the mind-body problem . is the mind some separate , non-material entity piloting a machine of flesh ?	who famously said `` i think , therefore i am ? ''	who famously said `` i think , therefore i am ? ''
soon after she became pregnant , the corps of discovery arrived near the hidatsa villages . captains meriwether lewis and william clark built fort mandan there , and then started interviewing people to help guide them on their perilous expedition . they agreed to hire sacajawea 's husband , charbonneau , with the understanding that his lovely wife would also come along as an interpreter .	the president during the lewis and clark expedition was :	the president during the lewis and clark expedition was :
but people who spend a lot of time at higher altitudes , such as airline crews , are exposed to much more . what makes cosmic rays useful as messengers is that they carry the traces of their origins . by studying the frequency with which different particles occur , scientists are able to determine the relative abundance of elements , such as hydrogen and helium , within the universe .	what makes cosmic rays useful ? why study them ?	what makes cosmic rays useful ? why study them ?
one third of all counts included the top two - the 'f ' word and the 's ' word . slate 's brilliant lexicon valley podcast purported that these 10 words makeup about 0.7 % of the average english speakers daily vocabulary , which means socially unacceptable words are used almost as often as socially descriptive words . first person plural pronouns account for about 1 % of the words we say everyday .	the top ten swear words make up what percentage of the average english speaker 's daily conversation ?	the top ten swear words make up what percentage of the average english speaker 's daily conversation ?
the back of a person is more yin than the front . the top of a person is the yang end . taoism teaches that there is a power in the universe .	which of the following is on the yang side of a person :	which of the following is on the yang side of a person :
the most common solar cells are made from silicon , a semiconductor that is the second most abundant element on earth . in a solar cell , crystalline silicon is sandwiched between conductive layers . each silicon atom is connected to its neighbors by four strong bonds , which keep the electrons in place so no current can flow .	what from the sun causes the solar cell to produce the electricity ?	what from the sun causes the solar cell to produce the electricity ?
the most common solar cells are made from silicon , a semiconductor that is the second most abundant element on earth . in a solar cell , crystalline silicon is sandwiched between conductive layers . each silicon atom is connected to its neighbors by four strong bonds , which keep the electrons in place so no current can flow .	what creates the potential difference ( voltage ) in a solar cell ?	what creates the potential difference ( voltage ) in a solar cell ?
europium is an element which , when you excite the atoms or excite the electrons in the atoms , gives out very nice red coloured light . ok , so europium is pretty much in the middle of the lanthanide series .	which color does europium emit when you excite the electrons in its atoms ?	which color does europium emit when you excite the electrons in its atoms ?
europium is an element which , when you excite the atoms or excite the electrons in the atoms , gives out very nice red coloured light . ok , so europium is pretty much in the middle of the lanthanide series .	which mineral , discovered in the english midlands of derbyshire , is a special form of calcium fluorite ? this special form of calcium fluorite contains trace amounts of europium , which gives it the property to emit blue light when exposed to uv light .	which mineral , discovered in the english midlands of derbyshire , is a special form of calcium fluorite ? this special form of calcium fluorite contains trace amounts of europium , which gives it the property to emit blue light when exposed to uv light .
all the material objects around you are composed of submicroscopic units we call molecules . and molecules in turn are composed of individual atoms . molecules frequently break apart and then form new molecules .	if all people understood the common heritage that we have with the earth and our environment - namely , that the very atoms that make up our bodies were formed in stars , just like the atoms in rocks , in the atmosphere and in every living thing - would people be more inclined to treat the environment with more care ?	if all people understood the common heritage that we have with the earth and our environment - namely , that the very atoms that make up our bodies were formed in stars , just like the atoms in rocks , in the atmosphere and in every living thing - would people be more inclined to treat the environment with more care ?
in other words , the seemingly empty space inside your vacuum would actually weigh a small amount . quantum fluctuations have existed since the earliest moments of the universe . in the moments after the big bang , as the universe expanded , they were amplified and stretched out to cosmic scales .	how do we know that vacuum ( or quantum ) fluctuations are real ? do they have any observable effects ?	how do we know that vacuum ( or quantum ) fluctuations are real ? do they have any observable effects ?
you 'd need to wrap yourself up to keep your core body temperature above 95 degrees fahrenheit , otherwise you 'd start shivering violently , gradually becoming mentally confused and eventually drop out of the sky due to loss of muscle control from hypothermia ! now , the ideal gas law implies that as the pressure decreases , gas volume increases . so , if you were to fly straight up too quickly , the inert gas in your body would rapidly expand the way soda fizzes up when shaken .	according to the ideal gas law : pv=nrt , what happens to the temperature when the pressure decreases ?	according to the ideal gas law : pv=nrt , what happens to the temperature when the pressure decreases ?
now , let 's take what we make about film , time slows down with more pictures , and try again . this time write a lot more . `` i bent my knees and held the ball loosely .	take a stab ! write a one paragraph explanation of bungee jumping . now , read it to yourself . did it feel like time was slowing down ?	take a stab ! write a one paragraph explanation of bungee jumping . now , read it to yourself . did it feel like time was slowing down ?
but someone was n't yelling `` you ! '' at us , they were yelling `` usa ! '' we were moving so fast , we only heard the first piece of it .	there are people in our lives that can help us realize the best ways to achieve our goal ( s ) . sometimes , it ’ s a coach or a teacher . other times it ’ s a friend or a family member . there are even times when it ’ s a person we have never met . can you name a person ( or people ) in your life that have played an important role in helping you reach your goal ( s ) ?	there are people in our lives that can help us realize the best ways to achieve our goal ( s ) . sometimes , it ’ s a coach or a teacher . other times it ’ s a friend or a family member . there are even times when it ’ s a person we have never met . can you name a person ( or people ) in your life that have played an important role in helping you reach your goal ( s ) ?
right now , you 're probably sitting down to watch this video and staying seated for a few minutes to view it is probably okay . but the longer you stay put , the more agitated your body becomes . it sits there counting down the moments until you stand up again and take it for a walk .	do you find sitting comfortable ? sit down for fifteen minutes without moving . can you do it ? write your observations . focus on how your body feels -- on your breathing and on your posture . list some of the effects prolonged sitting may be having on your health .	do you find sitting comfortable ? sit down for fifteen minutes without moving . can you do it ? write your observations . focus on how your body feels -- on your breathing and on your posture . list some of the effects prolonged sitting may be having on your health .
it was yellowish with a chemical odor . since the city did n't burn much coal , its cause would remain a mystery until a chemist named arie haagen-smit identified two culprits , volatile organic compounds , or vocs , and nitrous oxides . vocs are compounds that easily become vapors and may contain elements , such as carbon , oxygen , hydrogen , chlorine , and sulfur .	common sources of volatile organic compounds include :	common sources of volatile organic compounds include :
but it was another 14 years before a live specimen was found in the comoros islands , allowing scientists to closely study a creature that had barely evolved in 300 million years . a living fossil . decades later , a second species was found near indonesia .	what is so extraordinary about the discovery of the living coelacanth ?	what is so extraordinary about the discovery of the living coelacanth ?
what we today call surfing originated in the polynesian islands of the pacific ocean . we know from various accounts that wave riding was done throughout the polynesian pacific , as well as in west africa and peru . but it was in the hawaiian archipelago in particular that surfing advanced the most , was best documented , and , unlike elsewhere in polynesia , persisted .	where was wave-riding for pleasure not done prior to the modern era ?	where was wave-riding for pleasure not done prior to the modern era ?
a lump of plutonium , which is very radioactive , is really quite warm to touch . and francium , which i think is more radioactive , is probably very warm . so i think the melting point of francium will be lower than that of cesium because the melting points go down the group , and because it will be generating heat , almost certainly francium will be liquid at room temperature .	why do you think so many people have watched this video about francium ?	why do you think so many people have watched this video about francium ?
a lump of plutonium , which is very radioactive , is really quite warm to touch . and francium , which i think is more radioactive , is probably very warm . so i think the melting point of francium will be lower than that of cesium because the melting points go down the group , and because it will be generating heat , almost certainly francium will be liquid at room temperature .	the half-life of francium-223 ( the longest-lived isotope of francium ) is about 22 minutes . how much francium do you think is present in the earth ’ s crust ?	the half-life of francium-223 ( the longest-lived isotope of francium ) is about 22 minutes . how much francium do you think is present in the earth ’ s crust ?
that 's right ! so how big is the atom ? well , it 's really , really small !	do some research on dwarf stars . then comment on how the density of an atom is related to dwarf stars .	do some research on dwarf stars . then comment on how the density of an atom is related to dwarf stars .
radiation exposure and microgravity are only two of the many challenges we will encounter in the hostile conditions of space . but if we 're ethically prepared to use them , gene editing and microbial engineering are two flexible tools that could be adapted to many scenarios . in the near future , we may decide to further develop and tune these genetic tools for the harsh realities of space living .	gene therapy and microbial engineering are two biological tools that have helped alleviate human diseases . what are some ways that astronauts might benefit from biotechnology ?	gene therapy and microbial engineering are two biological tools that have helped alleviate human diseases . what are some ways that astronauts might benefit from biotechnology ?
at the same time , the feathers spread across the bodies of dinosaurs , turning from sparse patches of fuzz into dense plumage , which even extended down to their legs . a few fossils even preserved some of the molecules that give feathers color . they reveal a beautiful range of colors : glossy , dark plumage , reminiscent of crows , alternating strips of black and white , or splashes of bright red .	explain how we know what color dinosaur feathers were .	explain how we know what color dinosaur feathers were .
you know , all life developed here on earth with gravity being present , so life evolved under the influence of gravity , and then we grow up with gravity being present , so we learn how to walk and catch a ball and ice skate or whatever , all with gravity being present . and what if you were to grow up without gravity ? what about the systems that depend on gravity , like your muscles or your balance system or the heart and blood vessels ?	you must worry about all of the following when considering an environment without gravity :	you must worry about all of the following when considering an environment without gravity :
why did i pick these ? because when i added up all the comments in my interviews , more people said those 8 things helped them than anything else . the eight traits are really the heart of success , the foundation , and then on top we build the specific skills that we need for our particular field or career .	when i started interviewing people , i was shy , scared , and full of self-doubt . but i pushed through it and did over 500 interviews . i met wonderful people , got inspired , and learned a lot . and what i discovered from the interviews has helped a lot of people . so i ’ d recommend doing some interviews yourself . you never know where it might take you… name 5 people you know or admire in your community : a successful teacher , environmentalist , artist , engineer , dentist , police officer , ceo , etc . pick one person , make contact , and ask for an interview . most people are flattered you asked , and happy to help . write down some questions you could ask . i usually start with one question : `` what helped you succeed ? '' and go from there . do the interview . take notes or record what they say . it will be fun for both of you and you 'll learn a lot . summarize what helped them succeed and your conclusions .	when i started interviewing people , i was shy , scared , and full of self-doubt . but i pushed through it and did over 500 interviews . i met wonderful people , got inspired , and learned a lot . and what i discovered from the interviews has helped a lot of people . so i ’ d recommend doing some interviews yourself . you never know where it might take you… name 5 people you know or admire in your community : a successful teacher , environmentalist , artist , engineer , dentist , police officer , ceo , etc . pick one person , make contact , and ask for an interview . most people are flattered you asked , and happy to help . write down some questions you could ask . i usually start with one question : `` what helped you succeed ? '' and go from there . do the interview . take notes or record what they say . it will be fun for both of you and you 'll learn a lot . summarize what helped them succeed and your conclusions .
but at around 100 gigabits per square inch , shrinking the magnetic grains further or cramming them closer together posed a new risk called the superparamagnetic effect . when a magnetic grain volume is too small , its magnetization is easily disturbed by heat energy and can cause bits to switch unintentionally , leading to data loss . scientists resolved this limitation in a remarkably simple way : by changing the direction of recording from longitudinal to perpendicular , allowing areal density to approach one terabit per square inch .	in this lesson , what causes data loss ?	in this lesson , what causes data loss ?
a negative feedback loop , on the other hand , is when the initial change leads to effects that work in the opposite direction . melting ice also causes a type of negative feedback by releasing moisture into the atmosphere . this increases the amount and thickness of clouds present , which can cool the atmosphere by blocking more sunlight . but this negative feedback loop is short-lived , due to the brief arctic summers . for the rest of the year , when sunlight is scarce , the increased moisture and clouds actually warm the surface by trapping the earth 's heat , turning the feedback loop positive for all but a couple of months .	which choice ( s ) below describe the negative feedback loop found in the arctic ? 1. melting ice increases moisture in the atmosphere , causing clouds that cool the atmosphere by blocking more sunlight . 2. they are short-lived due to brief arctic summers . 3. increased clouds and moisture trap heat released from earth . 4. encourage a system 's stability by pushing a system towards equilibrium .	which choice ( s ) below describe the negative feedback loop found in the arctic ? 1. melting ice increases moisture in the atmosphere , causing clouds that cool the atmosphere by blocking more sunlight . 2. they are short-lived due to brief arctic summers . 3. increased clouds and moisture trap heat released from earth . 4. encourage a system 's stability by pushing a system towards equilibrium .
so how can evolution make a machine musically creative ? well , instead of organisms , we can start with an initial population of musical phrases , and a basic algorithm that mimics reproduction and random mutations by switching some parts , combining others , and replacing random notes . now that we have a new generation of phrases , we can apply selection using an operation called a fitness function .	the more generations of mutations and crossbreeding we will add to the musical genetic algorithm described in the video , then :	the more generations of mutations and crossbreeding we will add to the musical genetic algorithm described in the video , then :
one fun way to count them is to make a square , put an instrument at each corner , and draw the diagonals . see how many unique loops you can find , and keep in mind that these two are considered the same , they just start at different points . these two , however , are different . we can visualize the eight distinct three-box loops using triangles .	how many different possibilities are there to arrange 3 instruments in 3 boxes ?	how many different possibilities are there to arrange 3 instruments in 3 boxes ?
one fun way to count them is to make a square , put an instrument at each corner , and draw the diagonals . see how many unique loops you can find , and keep in mind that these two are considered the same , they just start at different points . these two , however , are different . we can visualize the eight distinct three-box loops using triangles .	how many different possibilities are there to arrange 10 instruments in 10 boxes ?	how many different possibilities are there to arrange 10 instruments in 10 boxes ?
so how does it happen ? during a total solar eclipse , the moon moves between the earth and the sun . when this happens , the disc of the moon appears to perfectly cover the disc of the sun even though the sun is much larger than the moon .	what do we call the sun ’ s outer atmosphere that is visible around the dark disk of the moon during a total solar eclipse ?	what do we call the sun ’ s outer atmosphere that is visible around the dark disk of the moon during a total solar eclipse ?
in ancient greek mythology , it was believed that human creativity was the result of divine inspiration from a group of goddesses known as the muses . while scholars have argued over the years that there are anything between 3 and 13 muses , the standard number accepted today is 9 . each muse oversees her own specific area of artistic expertise , ranging from song and dance to history and astronomy .	modern scholars generally accept that there are _____ muses .	modern scholars generally accept that there are _____ muses .
well , okay , that 's a crazy thought . the aliens made me say it . but it is cool that ideas do seem to have a life all of their own , and that they outlive their creators .	seti recently made its data public in order to :	seti recently made its data public in order to :
only plant cells have a cell wall , which is made of rigid cellulose that gives the plant structure . the virus cell that was sneezed into your lungs is sneaky . pretending to be a friend , it attaches to a projection on the cell membrane , and the cell brings it through the cell membrane and inside . when the virus gets through , the cell recognizes its mistake .	each cell in your body is surrounded by a cell membrane . the job of the cell membrane is to :	each cell in your body is surrounded by a cell membrane . the job of the cell membrane is to :
so what is radiation really , and how much should we worry about its effects ? the answer begins with understanding that the word radiation describes two very different scientific phenomena : electromagnetic radiation and nuclear radiation . electromagnetic radiation is pure energy consisting of interacting electrical and magnetic waves oscillating through space .	the reason why we have nuclear radiation is because of :	the reason why we have nuclear radiation is because of :
so what is radiation really , and how much should we worry about its effects ? the answer begins with understanding that the word radiation describes two very different scientific phenomena : electromagnetic radiation and nuclear radiation . electromagnetic radiation is pure energy consisting of interacting electrical and magnetic waves oscillating through space .	your friend worries he ’ ll get cancer from his microwave oven because he knows it uses radiation . how would you respond to him , knowing what you now do about radiation ?	your friend worries he ’ ll get cancer from his microwave oven because he knows it uses radiation . how would you respond to him , knowing what you now do about radiation ?
in fact , the influx of tourists has caused the wall to deteriorate , leading the chinese government to launch preservation initiatives . it 's also often acclaimed as the only man-made structure visible from space . unfortunately , that 's not at all true .	true or false : the great wall is the only visible man-made structure in space .	true or false : the great wall is the only visible man-made structure in space .
let 's imagine there are two ships : the ship that theseus docked in athens , ship a , and the ship sailed by the athenians 1000 years later , ship b . very simply , our question is this : does a equal b ? some would say that for 1000 years there has been only one ship of theseus , and because the changes made to it happened gradually , it never at any point in time stopped being the legendary ship .	why is the question `` who am i '' so difficult to answer ?	why is the question `` who am i '' so difficult to answer ?
do n't forget your rubber gloves . but they all work , even the littlest ones . [ rustling sounds ] [ boat horn sounds ] [ ♪ music ♪ ] [ water and engine sounds ] when i was young , average fish was like thirty pounds .	as the film portrays , some cultural traditions are intimately tied to local ecosystems , and are threatened when the ecosystem itself shifts . are cultural changes like the ones depicted in the film inevitable consequences of `` progress , '' or should we actively work to preserve these cultural traditions ?	as the film portrays , some cultural traditions are intimately tied to local ecosystems , and are threatened when the ecosystem itself shifts . are cultural changes like the ones depicted in the film inevitable consequences of `` progress , '' or should we actively work to preserve these cultural traditions ?
you can find it in parts of africa and asia . it 's a little under an inch long , and it is a beautiful looking parasite . now , you may be saying to yourself , `` this is not a parasite . it 's not a tapeworm , it 's not a virus , how could a wasp be a parasite ? ''	which of the following best defines a parasite ?	which of the following best defines a parasite ?
reaching up to over 50,000 feet , they bring high force winds , giant hailstones , sometimes flooding and great flashes of lightning , too . these are the kinds of storms that breed tornadoes , but only if there are also very specific conditions in place , clues that we can measure and look out for when we 're trying to forecast a storm . rising air is the first ingredient needed for a tornado to develop .	specific conditions for tornadoes include :	specific conditions for tornadoes include :
in the 19th century , french mineralogists discovered that jade was being used to describe two distinct minerals : jadeite , which takes its name from jade , and the more common nephrite , the root of which is the greek word nephros , meaning kidney . in addition to describing these two minerals , jade also has an english homonym . with roots that predate the popularity of the lustral gemstone , jade was used to refer to either a disreputable woman or a broken-down horse .	what is the difference between a homonym and a synonym ?	what is the difference between a homonym and a synonym ?
that seems logical . which makes the hard drive feel colder and the book feel warmer . so when you touch something , you do n't actually feel temperature .	even though the book and the hard drive are the same temperature , why does the hard drive feel colder ?	even though the book and the hard drive are the same temperature , why does the hard drive feel colder ?
interpersonal intelligence is how you understand other people , how you motivate them , how you lead them , how you work with them , how you cooperate with them . anybody at any workplace with other people needs interpersonal intelligence . leaders hopefully have a lot of interpersonal intelligence . but any intelligence can be used in a pernicious way so the salesman that sells you something you don ’ t want for a price you don ’ t want to pay , he or she has got interpersonal intelligence . it ’ s just not being used in a way that we might prefer .	what is interpersonal intelligence ? how can it be used in a pernicious way ?	what is interpersonal intelligence ? how can it be used in a pernicious way ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar `` i need a hero ! '' so many people in distress have said this , but why ? what kind of hero do we need and do we even really even need a hero at all ? well , if you look at any piece of literature written for page , script , or stage , the answer is yes !	research joseph campbell and his theory that is the background for the hero cycle . then use that to look up the hero cycle ( or monomyth cycle ) . how many stories today follow this pattern ?	research joseph campbell and his theory that is the background for the hero cycle . then use that to look up the hero cycle ( or monomyth cycle ) . how many stories today follow this pattern ?
nor do monotremes , the third and arguably strangest example of mammalian birth . there were once hundreds of monotreme species , but there are only five left : four species of echidnas and the duck-billed platypus . the name monotreme means one hole referring to the single orifice they use for reproduction , excretion , and egg-laying .	other than the platypus , the only other type of monotreme that lives on earth today are the :	other than the platypus , the only other type of monotreme that lives on earth today are the :
when the february 1917 uprisings finally forced the tsar to abdicate , lenin was still exiled in switzerland . '' `` hm , so who came to power ? '' `` the duma formed a provisional government , led by alexander kerensky , an incompetent bourgeois failure .	who initially came to power after the tsar abdicated ?	who initially came to power after the tsar abdicated ?
so how can you apply these lie-spotting techniques to your life ? first , remember that many of the lies we encounter on a daily basis are far less serious that these examples , and may even be harmless . but it 's still worthwhile to be aware of telltale clues , like minimal self-references , negative language , simple explanations and convoluted phrasing .	how many lies do we hear every day ?	how many lies do we hear every day ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar at birth , our bodies are roughly 75 % water . we remain mostly water for the rest of our lives .	at birth , ______ of our bodies are made of water .	at birth , ______ of our bodies are made of water .
depression is the leading cause of disability in the world . in the united states , close to 10 % of adults struggle with depression .	according to the world health organization , what is the leading cause of disability in the world ?	according to the world health organization , what is the leading cause of disability in the world ?
in the case of carbohydrates , the liver breaks them down and converts them into sugars for the body to use as energy when the filtered blood is sent back out . sometimes the body has leftovers of nutrients that it does n't immediately require . when that happens , the liver holds some back , and stacks them in its storage facility .	when the liver encounters more nutrients than the body needs , it :	when the liver encounters more nutrients than the body needs , it :
but it 's not just foods . got an iphone ? everyone knows it was invented and designed at cupertino in california , but who knows where the complex bits and pieces of its innards are made or assembled ?	how old was mclean when he got his big break ?	how old was mclean when he got his big break ?
her default position toward me , as an african , was a kind of patronizing , well-meaning pity . my roommate had a single story of africa : a single story of catastrophe . in this single story , there was no possibility of africans being similar to her in any way , no possibility of feelings more complex than pity , no possibility of a connection as human equals .	according to adichie , how is a `` single story '' created and why is it dangerous ? ( 9:25 )	according to adichie , how is a `` single story '' created and why is it dangerous ? ( 9:25 )
instruments are classified based on how those vibrations are produced . percussion instruments are struck . string instruments are plucked or bowed .	the percussion , the woodwind , and the brass sections all play key roles in a band . describe how each type of instrument makes its sound .	the percussion , the woodwind , and the brass sections all play key roles in a band . describe how each type of instrument makes its sound .
it ’ s also a fascinating element in the sense that we can use it to date samples from the moon . so this is a sample of samarium and there ’ s is a very small amount of it here , perhaps half of a gram . but you know there 's some interesting things we can see about this package because we can see on this label it says “ packed in argon – handle with care. ” now it ’ s packed in argon because argon is very , very inert , it doesn ’ t react with anything , so it ’ s used to store , safely , this sample so that we can get it to carry out research . but i think that this sample has perhaps become damaged because , i think , the packets maybe broken because the samarium is gone and all you can see there inside is this white powder which , i suspect , is samarium oxide , so unfortunately not elemental samarium , but close . samarium is also very important because it ’ s a neutron absorber , which means it ’ s got a lot of use in nuclear power stations .	why was the sample of samarium that pete showed us packed in argon ?	why was the sample of samarium that pete showed us packed in argon ?
this has been especially powdered for us , so again it has a very , very high surface area . one of my favourite chemical equations is ëtadpoles plus iodine goes to frogsí . so you can see the aluminium and the iodine mixed within this solid mixture .	what is one of the professor 's favorite chemical equations involving frogs ?	what is one of the professor 's favorite chemical equations involving frogs ?
there were armadillos as big as small cars , an eight foot beaver , and a bird with a 26 foot wingspan . almost everywhere , the world 's megafauna were driven to extinction , often by human hunters . some species still survive in parts of africa and asia .	which aspects of human life would be enhanced by a mass restoration of the natural world in places vacated by farming , and which would be impoverished ?	which aspects of human life would be enhanced by a mass restoration of the natural world in places vacated by farming , and which would be impoverished ?
there were armadillos as big as small cars , an eight foot beaver , and a bird with a 26 foot wingspan . almost everywhere , the world 's megafauna were driven to extinction , often by human hunters . some species still survive in parts of africa and asia .	if extinction is forever , to what extent can an ecosystem missing much of its megafauna truly be restored ?	if extinction is forever , to what extent can an ecosystem missing much of its megafauna truly be restored ?
there were armadillos as big as small cars , an eight foot beaver , and a bird with a 26 foot wingspan . almost everywhere , the world 's megafauna were driven to extinction , often by human hunters . some species still survive in parts of africa and asia .	how does research of the kind conducted in yellowstone change our understanding of how the natural world works ?	how does research of the kind conducted in yellowstone change our understanding of how the natural world works ?
and , how come you ca n't detect colors when it 's dark ? well , the rod cells in your retina take over in low-light conditions . you only have one kind of rod cell , and so there is one type of signal that can get sent to your brain : light or no light . having only one kind of light detector does n't leave any room for seeing color .	which is not a light-detecting cell ?	which is not a light-detecting cell ?
reinhard döhl 's “ apfel ” and eugen gomringer 's `` silencio '' toe the line between visual art and poetry . meanwhile , e.e . cummings wrote poems whose shapes were as important as the words themselves , in this case amplifying the sad loneliness of a single leaf falling through space .	what does reinhard dohl ’ s “ apfel ” have in common with e.e . cummings ’ “ l ( a ) ” ?	what does reinhard dohl ’ s “ apfel ” have in common with e.e . cummings ’ “ l ( a ) ” ?
so how reliable are these billions of bits ? we tend to think of computer memory as stable and permanent , but it actually degrades fairly quickly . the heat generated from a device and its environment will eventually demagnetize hard drives , degrade the dye in optical media , and cause charge leakage in floating gates .	an unopened photo is kept in the _____ of a computer .	an unopened photo is kept in the _____ of a computer .
so how reliable are these billions of bits ? we tend to think of computer memory as stable and permanent , but it actually degrades fairly quickly . the heat generated from a device and its environment will eventually demagnetize hard drives , degrade the dye in optical media , and cause charge leakage in floating gates .	why does a computer need to use several types of memory ?	why does a computer need to use several types of memory ?
we also know that the earth is just the right distance from the sun , so as not to be either frozen or molten . so , planets within such a habitable range from their own stars may be able to support life . but while we used to think that life could only exist in such earth-like environments , one of the most amazing discoveries of astrobiology has been just how versatile life is . we now know that life can thrive in some of the most extreme environments that 'd be fatal for most known organisms .	which of these things is not always needed for life on earth ?	which of these things is not always needed for life on earth ?
that 's what inhalational anesthetics do . in western medicine , diethyl ether was the first common one . it was best known as a recreational drug until doctors started to realize that people sometimes did n't notice injuries they received under the influence .	do you think it is ethical for modern anesthestics to be founded on such dubious circumstances such as people experimenting with cocaine or ether for frivolous purposes ? would you be ok with , for example , the medicine of tomorrow being developed based on people 's personal experimentation with pcp ?	do you think it is ethical for modern anesthestics to be founded on such dubious circumstances such as people experimenting with cocaine or ether for frivolous purposes ? would you be ok with , for example , the medicine of tomorrow being developed based on people 's personal experimentation with pcp ?
that 's what inhalational anesthetics do . in western medicine , diethyl ether was the first common one . it was best known as a recreational drug until doctors started to realize that people sometimes did n't notice injuries they received under the influence .	technology has progressed very rapidly these past few decades , and this includes medicine . can you think of anything that will become the standard of medical practice in the next 10 years ? for example , doctors using computers to write notes on patients instead of writing them by hand .	technology has progressed very rapidly these past few decades , and this includes medicine . can you think of anything that will become the standard of medical practice in the next 10 years ? for example , doctors using computers to write notes on patients instead of writing them by hand .
suddenly , with just 200 meters to go , he collapsed , got back up and then collapsed again on the final straightaway , with his body temperature at dangerous levels . he had suffered an exertional heat stroke . fortunately , with immediate and proper treatment , he survived the potentially fatal episode and has since helped save 167 people in similar circumstances .	what distinguishes exertional heat stroke from classical heat stroke ?	what distinguishes exertional heat stroke from classical heat stroke ?
suddenly , with just 200 meters to go , he collapsed , got back up and then collapsed again on the final straightaway , with his body temperature at dangerous levels . he had suffered an exertional heat stroke . fortunately , with immediate and proper treatment , he survived the potentially fatal episode and has since helped save 167 people in similar circumstances .	what is the temperature that is considered the criterion for exertional heat stroke ?	what is the temperature that is considered the criterion for exertional heat stroke ?
suddenly , with just 200 meters to go , he collapsed , got back up and then collapsed again on the final straightaway , with his body temperature at dangerous levels . he had suffered an exertional heat stroke . fortunately , with immediate and proper treatment , he survived the potentially fatal episode and has since helped save 167 people in similar circumstances .	what is the best method for cooling someone with exertional heat stroke ?	what is the best method for cooling someone with exertional heat stroke ?
suddenly , with just 200 meters to go , he collapsed , got back up and then collapsed again on the final straightaway , with his body temperature at dangerous levels . he had suffered an exertional heat stroke . fortunately , with immediate and proper treatment , he survived the potentially fatal episode and has since helped save 167 people in similar circumstances .	what are some common situations where exertional heat stroke might occur ?	what are some common situations where exertional heat stroke might occur ?
suddenly , with just 200 meters to go , he collapsed , got back up and then collapsed again on the final straightaway , with his body temperature at dangerous levels . he had suffered an exertional heat stroke . fortunately , with immediate and proper treatment , he survived the potentially fatal episode and has since helped save 167 people in similar circumstances .	besides body temperature , how can you recognize exertional heat stroke ?	besides body temperature , how can you recognize exertional heat stroke ?
suddenly , with just 200 meters to go , he collapsed , got back up and then collapsed again on the final straightaway , with his body temperature at dangerous levels . he had suffered an exertional heat stroke . fortunately , with immediate and proper treatment , he survived the potentially fatal episode and has since helped save 167 people in similar circumstances .	what are some ways to cool an individual with exertional heat stroke , besides cold water immersion ?	what are some ways to cool an individual with exertional heat stroke , besides cold water immersion ?
the fleet never expected the new ocean to be so vast . after 98 days at sea , dozens of sailors had succumbed to scurvy and famine . when they finally reached land again , enrique , the young slave , proved able to communicate with the natives .	scurvy was responsible for the deaths of dozens of men during the expedition . what do you know this disease ? what simple measures could have been taken to prevent those deaths ?	scurvy was responsible for the deaths of dozens of men during the expedition . what do you know this disease ? what simple measures could have been taken to prevent those deaths ?
if you are n't , good ; if you are , even better , because by being persuaded , you would prove that you 're a persuaded being . you ca n't be nothing if you think you 're something , even if you think that something is nothing because no matter what you think , you 're a thinking thing , or as descartes put it , `` i think , therefore i am , '' and so are you , really . ( airplane engine )	what does the phrase `` i think , therefore i am '' mean ?	what does the phrase `` i think , therefore i am '' mean ?
just like with a real life address , a website address lets you get where you want to go . the information stored in the websites is in web languages , such as html and javascript . when we find the website we 're looking for , our web browser is able to take all the code on the site and turn it into words , graphics , and videos . we do n't need to know any special computer languages because the web browser creates a graphic interface for us .	what do you need to be able to find websites online easily ?	what do you need to be able to find websites online easily ?
calcium is the third element in group two on the periodic table . it ’ s really very common . we find it all over the world in all sorts of minerals .	maybe one of your grandparents has suffered from a broken hip . why is this quite common in elderly people ?	maybe one of your grandparents has suffered from a broken hip . why is this quite common in elderly people ?
it 's ability to glow green helps it attract a mate on a warm , summer night , but it 's just one of many living things that can glow . the railroad worm , phrixothrix hirtus , can light up its body in two colors : red and green . would you eat something that looks like an airport runway ?	the railroad worm , phrixothrix hirtus , can illuminate its body in two colors . what are they ?	the railroad worm , phrixothrix hirtus , can illuminate its body in two colors . what are they ?
you know , back in the '40s and '50s , the original standard television had a 4 to 3 width to height ratio . that shape was chosen to be a slight rectangle , but still mostly square , thus having the maximal screen area for the given dimensions .	in the 1940 's and 1950 's , the original standard television had a	in the 1940 's and 1950 's , the original standard television had a
and did he even discover america at all ? it 's time to put columbus on the stand in history vs. christopher columbus . `` order , order in the court .	what was columbus trying to find in his expedition ?	what was columbus trying to find in his expedition ?
and did he even discover america at all ? it 's time to put columbus on the stand in history vs. christopher columbus . `` order , order in the court .	how did columbus 's governorship of the hispaniola colony end ?	how did columbus 's governorship of the hispaniola colony end ?
this was the depression era and people were desperate for ways to get money moving . during a crackdown on organzied crime in the 1950s federal law classified claw machines as gambling devices and prohibited the transporation of them across state lines . after those laws were relaxed in the 1970s newer claw machines from europe and asia spread throughout the united states .	the 1950s saw a crackdown on organized crime in america , and claw machines were outlawed because they were considered ...	the 1950s saw a crackdown on organized crime in america , and claw machines were outlawed because they were considered ...
we also know that specific foods can affect gut bacteria . in one recent microbiome study , scientists found that fruits , vegetables , tea , coffee , red wine , and dark chocolate were correlated with increased bacterial diversity . these foods contain polyphenols , which are naturally occurring antioxidant compounds .	in recent studies , all of the following foods were correlated with increased bacterial diversity except :	in recent studies , all of the following foods were correlated with increased bacterial diversity except :
there was an intellectual movement in italy at the time called neoplatonism . this movement took an old concept from the 4th century developed by plato and aristotle , called `` the great chain of being . '' this belief holds that the universe has a hierarchy resembling a chain , and that chain starts at the top with god , then travels down through the angels , planets , stars , and all lifeforms before ending with demons and devils . early in this philosophic movement , it was thought that mankind 's place in this chain was exactly in the center .	what can be found at the top of the great chain of being ?	what can be found at the top of the great chain of being ?
but of all the u.s. presidents accused of misusing that power , only one has left office as a result . does richard nixon deserve to be remembered for more than the scandal that ended his presidency ? find out as we put this disgraced president 's legacy on trial in history vs. richard nixon .	how did richard nixon 's presidency end ?	how did richard nixon 's presidency end ?
but of all the u.s. presidents accused of misusing that power , only one has left office as a result . does richard nixon deserve to be remembered for more than the scandal that ended his presidency ? find out as we put this disgraced president 's legacy on trial in history vs. richard nixon .	what was nixon 's role and specific wrongdoing in the watergate scandal ?	what was nixon 's role and specific wrongdoing in the watergate scandal ?
that 's dependent on the form these compounds take . vitamins come in two types : lipid-soluble and water-soluble , and the difference between them determines how the body transports and stores vitamins , and gets rid of the excess . the water-solubles are vitamin c and b complex vitamins that are made up of eight different types that each do something unique .	you are a lipid-soluble vitamin . give yourself a lipid-soluble vitamin name . draw a sketch of your complete travels through the body ( include ingestion , breakdown , storage and excretion in your sketch ) .	you are a lipid-soluble vitamin . give yourself a lipid-soluble vitamin name . draw a sketch of your complete travels through the body ( include ingestion , breakdown , storage and excretion in your sketch ) .
that 's dependent on the form these compounds take . vitamins come in two types : lipid-soluble and water-soluble , and the difference between them determines how the body transports and stores vitamins , and gets rid of the excess . the water-solubles are vitamin c and b complex vitamins that are made up of eight different types that each do something unique .	how do lipid-soluble vitamins from milk and butter dissolve in the body ?	how do lipid-soluble vitamins from milk and butter dissolve in the body ?
the symbol of the door looks like a pair of saloon doors in the wild west . i call these eight characters radicals . they are the building blocks for you to create lots more characters .	practice the first eight characters that shaolan describes , which she calls `` radicals . ''	practice the first eight characters that shaolan describes , which she calls `` radicals . ''
meet sam the substrate . his team is the mods squad . together , his team is able to get to the finish faster , using less energy .	the mods are different types of ___ .	the mods are different types of ___ .
meet sam the substrate . his team is the mods squad . together , his team is able to get to the finish faster , using less energy .	which of the mods might fit two substrates together like puzzle pieces ?	which of the mods might fit two substrates together like puzzle pieces ?
we have to do whatever we can and should to make our real sentiments known . `` good '' and `` bad '' will no longer be our go-to words that we rely on when we are too afraid or too languid to express our real thoughts . ladies and gentlemen of the jury , i implore you to deliver a verdict of guilty and send these words to their rightful fate .	why does neel suppose we rely on good and bad as go to words to express our thoughts ?	why does neel suppose we rely on good and bad as go to words to express our thoughts ?
i 'm wondering about that . germaine greer has wondered about the same things and she says , `` at breakfast and at dinner , we can sharpen our own appetites with a plentiful dose of the pornography of war , genocide , destitution , and disease . '' she is right . we have sharpened our appetites , but we can also sharpen our insights .	the writer and scholar germaine greer believes that we have an unfortunate appetite for the “ pornography of war , genocide , destitution , and disease. ” is she right ? and if so , why do you think we ’ re attuned to these things ?	the writer and scholar germaine greer believes that we have an unfortunate appetite for the “ pornography of war , genocide , destitution , and disease. ” is she right ? and if so , why do you think we ’ re attuned to these things ?
our new technologies are opening up many other novel ethical dilemmas . for instance , if you had to choose between a car that would always save as many lives as possible in an accident , or one that would save you at any cost , which would you buy ? what happens if the cars start analyzing and factoring in the passengers of the cars and the particulars of their lives ?	in the first scenario , which option would best protect the autonomous car and its occupants ?	in the first scenario , which option would best protect the autonomous car and its occupants ?
we call that your weight . then , the elevator starts falling down . you and the scale are in the elevator , so you are falling down too , faster and faster .	if you are on a scale inside a falling elevator , what do you think will most likely happen ?	if you are on a scale inside a falling elevator , what do you think will most likely happen ?
some of the best opportunities to learn are the moments in which we are perplexed . those moments in which you begin to wonder and question .	salata says that some of the best opportunities to learn are the moments in which we are ...	salata says that some of the best opportunities to learn are the moments in which we are ...
as before , new stars result . our sun was born this way about 5 billion years ago . that means that the gas it arose from had itself been enriched with many elements from supernova explosions since the universe began .	our sun was formed ________ .	our sun was formed ________ .
early peruvian cajons consisted of a simple box with five thick wooden sides . the sixth side , made of a thinner sheet of wood , would be used as the striking surface , or more commonly known as the tapa . a sound hole was also cut into the back to allow the sound to escape .	what is the cajon 's striking surface more commonly known as ?	what is the cajon 's striking surface more commonly known as ?
with a higher sensitivity , we 'll be able to get a picture with less available light . 100 iso is a low sensitivity , while 6400 iso is a high one . if we increase sensitivity , we 'll be able to use faster speeds and smaller apertures , but we 'll get noisier images .	which of these iso options will give us a noisier image ?	which of these iso options will give us a noisier image ?
you can , of course , collect rain water in calibrated containers , but all you really end up with are buckets of water . understanding clouds required a different approach , which is where luke howard 's idea came in . his simple insight based on years of observation was that clouds have many individual shapes but they have few basic forms . in fact , all clouds belong to one of three principle types to which howard gave the names : cirrus , latin for tendril or hair , cumulus , heap or pile , and stratus , layer or sheet . but that was n't the clever part .	the names of the clouds were derived from which language ?	the names of the clouds were derived from which language ?
and a three-dimensional space adds a third perpendicular line , which gives us height and the world we 're familiar with . so , what about four dimensions ? and five ?	what could studying the fourth ( and higher ) dimensions be useful for ? hint : not all dimensions are spatial . time can be a dimension , as can any variable in an equation .	what could studying the fourth ( and higher ) dimensions be useful for ? hint : not all dimensions are spatial . time can be a dimension , as can any variable in an equation .
have you ever been floating in a swimming pool , all comfy and warm , thinking , `` man , it 'd be cool to be an astronaut ! you could float out in outer space , look down at the earth and everything .	which of the following objects experiences the force of gravity ?	which of the following objects experiences the force of gravity ?
but the cloud was n't an act of war . it was smog . a portmanteau of smoke and fog , the word smog was coined at the beginning of the 20th century to describe the thick gray haze that covered cities such as london , glasgow , and edinburgh .	a ___________ haze is associated with industrial smog , while a ___________ haze is associated with photochemical smog .	a ___________ haze is associated with industrial smog , while a ___________ haze is associated with photochemical smog .
but the cloud was n't an act of war . it was smog . a portmanteau of smoke and fog , the word smog was coined at the beginning of the 20th century to describe the thick gray haze that covered cities such as london , glasgow , and edinburgh .	which health issues are exacerbated by exposure to smog ?	which health issues are exacerbated by exposure to smog ?
but the cloud was n't an act of war . it was smog . a portmanteau of smoke and fog , the word smog was coined at the beginning of the 20th century to describe the thick gray haze that covered cities such as london , glasgow , and edinburgh .	smog formation will continue to increase as urban growth occurs across the world . brainstorm three ways to decrease smog formation in areas that are prone to it .	smog formation will continue to increase as urban growth occurs across the world . brainstorm three ways to decrease smog formation in areas that are prone to it .
but the cloud was n't an act of war . it was smog . a portmanteau of smoke and fog , the word smog was coined at the beginning of the 20th century to describe the thick gray haze that covered cities such as london , glasgow , and edinburgh .	which groups of people are more prone to the breathing difficulties that are associated with smog ?	which groups of people are more prone to the breathing difficulties that are associated with smog ?
it can not survive without him . so , though the two ships are numerically identical , they are not qualitatively identical . thus , a does not equal b .	when two things are numerically identical , it means :	when two things are numerically identical , it means :
there three kinds of cone cells that roughly correspond to the colors red , green , and blue . when you see a color , each cone sends its own distinct signal to your brain . for example , suppose that yellow light , that is real yellow light , with a yellow frequency , is shining on your eye .	explain what happens when someone is color blind . does this alter his or her ability to see in the dark ?	explain what happens when someone is color blind . does this alter his or her ability to see in the dark ?
not to be outdone , females have evolved their own countermeasures . in some bed bug species , the females have evolved an entirely new set of genitalia on their right hand flanks where the males usually pierce them . that allows them to maintain the power to filter out unwanted sperm with their genitalia .	why are genitals so useful for identifying species that otherwise look alike ?	why are genitals so useful for identifying species that otherwise look alike ?
answer in : 3 answer in : 2 answer in : 1 this is what 's known as a look and say sequence . unlike many number sequences , this relies not on some mathematical property of the numbers themselves , but on their notation . start with the left-most digit of the initial number .	in what fundamental way is this different from most number sequences ?	in what fundamental way is this different from most number sequences ?
this is due to plate tectonics , or the large-scale movement of earth 's continents . the motion occurs within the top two layers of the earth 's mantle , the lithosphere and asthenosphere . the lithosphere , which includes the crust and uppermost mantle , comprises the land around you .	the top two layers of the earth ’ s mantle are the lithosphere and the ________ .	the top two layers of the earth ’ s mantle are the lithosphere and the ________ .
the result ? about 2.5 billion years ago was a mass extinction of virtually all life on earth , which barely spared the cyanobacteria . geologists call this the great oxygenation event , or even the oxygen catastrophe .	cyanobacteria were the first oxygen producing photosynthesizers . they evolved between __ and __ billion years ago .	cyanobacteria were the first oxygen producing photosynthesizers . they evolved between __ and __ billion years ago .
but they have very different structures and behave quite differently in our bodies . glucose is the best source of energy for nearly all organisms on earth . it can be metabolized by all organs in the body . fructose , on the other hand , is metabolized primarily in the liver , and when your liver gets overloaded with sweet , sweet fructose , the excess is metabolized to fat .	which of these is the best drink for your body ?	which of these is the best drink for your body ?
gamma is used to zap the bacteria in fruit to increase its shelf life , or in radiotherapy to kill cancer cells . radioactive substances get hot , and this heat can be used to generate power . this heat has been brought to you since space probes , and , in the past , in pacemakers for hearts .	nuclear power stations produce dangerous radioactive waste which must be stored safely for thousands of years . despite this , what arguments are used in favor of developing nuclear power ?	nuclear power stations produce dangerous radioactive waste which must be stored safely for thousands of years . despite this , what arguments are used in favor of developing nuclear power ?
you 'll keep missing because you 're moving so fast . in this way , astronauts orbit the earth . they 're always falling towards the earth , but they 're always missing , and therefore , they 're falling all the time .	to put an object into orbit around the earth takes a lot of energy . describe the places that energy must go .	to put an object into orbit around the earth takes a lot of energy . describe the places that energy must go .
how many times can you fold a piece of paper ? assume that one had a piece of paper that was very fine , like the kind they typically use to print the bible .	paenza ’ s problem is an example of	paenza ’ s problem is an example of
how many times can you fold a piece of paper ? assume that one had a piece of paper that was very fine , like the kind they typically use to print the bible .	if we fold the paper ten times , how thick would it be ?	if we fold the paper ten times , how thick would it be ?
nicolas steno is rarely heard of outside intro to geology , but anyone hoping to understand life on earth should see how steno expanded and connected those very concepts : earth , life , and understanding . born niels stensen in 1638 denmark , son of a goldsmith , he was a sickly kid whose school chums died of plague .	what might a uniformitarianist meteorologist say about the prospect of a super-blizzard covering the northern hemisphere of the earth over the course of a day ?	what might a uniformitarianist meteorologist say about the prospect of a super-blizzard covering the northern hemisphere of the earth over the course of a day ?
nicolas steno is rarely heard of outside intro to geology , but anyone hoping to understand life on earth should see how steno expanded and connected those very concepts : earth , life , and understanding . born niels stensen in 1638 denmark , son of a goldsmith , he was a sickly kid whose school chums died of plague .	book 1 presents proof that book 2 is wrong about something ! what do you do ?	book 1 presents proof that book 2 is wrong about something ! what do you do ?
nicolas steno is rarely heard of outside intro to geology , but anyone hoping to understand life on earth should see how steno expanded and connected those very concepts : earth , life , and understanding . born niels stensen in 1638 denmark , son of a goldsmith , he was a sickly kid whose school chums died of plague .	steno ’ s stratigraphy was a piece of the puzzle that led to the theory of the earth . think of all you know about the earth ’ s geology . what are all the other small questions you need to answer before you get to your current understanding ( however rough ) of how the earth works ?	steno ’ s stratigraphy was a piece of the puzzle that led to the theory of the earth . think of all you know about the earth ’ s geology . what are all the other small questions you need to answer before you get to your current understanding ( however rough ) of how the earth works ?
no sound is heard as it approaches an observer because the object is traveling faster than the sound it produces . only after the object has passed will the observer hear the sonic boom . where the mach cone meets the ground , it forms a hyperbola , leaving a trail known as the boom carpet as it travels forward .	when would you hear a sonic boom ?	when would you hear a sonic boom ?
those shapes have attraction to one another , so they fit together in precise ways . image you want to build a perfect sphere . it turns out that making a precise sphere through traditional means is actually quite difficult .	what does tibbits suggest is done to form a perfect sphere ?	what does tibbits suggest is done to form a perfect sphere ?
our stomachs are j-shaped organs with surprisingly intricate ecosystems awash in hormones and chemicals . the stomach is under constant attack by digestive enzymes , bile , proteins , microbes , and the stomach 's own acid . in response , it produces bicarbonate , mucus , and phospholipids called prostaglandins to maintain the integrity of its own lining .	how does the stomach maintain its own structure and function amidst exposure to potentially harmful agents ?	how does the stomach maintain its own structure and function amidst exposure to potentially harmful agents ?
our stomachs are j-shaped organs with surprisingly intricate ecosystems awash in hormones and chemicals . the stomach is under constant attack by digestive enzymes , bile , proteins , microbes , and the stomach 's own acid . in response , it produces bicarbonate , mucus , and phospholipids called prostaglandins to maintain the integrity of its own lining .	which is the primary acid in the stomach ?	which is the primary acid in the stomach ?
1997 's winner catherine could carry on amazingly focused and intelligent conversation , but mostly if the judge wanted to talk about bill clinton . and the more recent winner eugene goostman was given the persona of a 13-year-old ukrainian boy , so judges interpreted its nonsequiturs and awkward grammar as language and culture barriers . meanwhile , other programs like cleverbot have taken a different approach by statistically analyzing huge databases of real conversations to determine the best responses .	what strategy was used by eugene goostman ?	what strategy was used by eugene goostman ?
during a normal rem cycle , you 're experiencing a number of sensory stimuli in the form of a dream , and your brain is unconscious and fully asleep . during your dream , special neurotransmitters are released , which paralyze almost all of your muscles . that 's called rem atonia .	during a normal dream , special neurotransmitters are released , which paralyze almost all of your muscles and keep you from acting out the movements in your dreams . what is this called ?	during a normal dream , special neurotransmitters are released , which paralyze almost all of your muscles and keep you from acting out the movements in your dreams . what is this called ?
so , instead of water , we use a solution , a homogeneous mixture consisting of a solute and a solvent . some of the solution 's properties will differ depending on the proportion of solute present . these are called colligative properties , and as luck would have it , they include freezing point depression and boiling point elevation . so , solutions have both a lower freezing point and a higher boiling point than pure solvent , and the more solute is present , the bigger the difference .	colligative properties are ________ .	colligative properties are ________ .
you 're pulling on the earth , the moon , the sun , and every single star , and they 're pulling on you . the more mass something has , the stronger its gravitational pull . the farther away the object , the lower its pull .	which of the following is true about the pull of gravity ?	which of the following is true about the pull of gravity ?
so you have un-un-trium or it might be ununtrium , i don ’ t know , which stands for 113 . and you might actually ask , ‘ why should anybody want to make a few atoms of these artificial elements ? ’ and i think the answer , i don ’ t know definitely , is that there have been predictions that although the elements at this part of the periodic table are very unstable , that there may , at heavier elements , be one or two elements which are surprisingly stable , might last for very much longer . they are called ‘ islands of stability ’ that have been predicted , and so people are working systematically to see whether in fact there are one or two elements that are in fact really quite stable even though they are super heavy .	what is the name for the concept that some superheavy elements might be more stable than lighter ones ?	what is the name for the concept that some superheavy elements might be more stable than lighter ones ?
for those that actually reach the surf , they trade one set of threats for another , as they first face the repelling force of the waves , and then find a whole new host of predators awaiting them : various fish , dolphins , sharks , and sea birds , as the young turtles come to the surface for air . for their first few days of life , should they count themselves amongst the living , the vulnerable turtles swim frantically forward . ultimately , they will often look to settle in a patch of flotsam , preferably a patch of floating seaweed .	during their first few days of life , sea turtle hatchlings swim frantically out into the ocean , driven by instinct to seek shelter in :	during their first few days of life , sea turtle hatchlings swim frantically out into the ocean , driven by instinct to seek shelter in :
the last step in this long process , an intrepid paleontologist has to come find you . maybe she 's a research scientist scouting for fossils your age and type or just an amateur collector hoping for a fortuitous find . she whacks away at layers of rock above you or spots your fossil exposed in a creek bank after a flood .	what types of information can we gain from studying fossils that we can not learn by studying living organisms ? what things can we not study in fossils that we can study in living organisms ?	what types of information can we gain from studying fossils that we can not learn by studying living organisms ? what things can we not study in fossils that we can study in living organisms ?
the last step in this long process , an intrepid paleontologist has to come find you . maybe she 's a research scientist scouting for fossils your age and type or just an amateur collector hoping for a fortuitous find . she whacks away at layers of rock above you or spots your fossil exposed in a creek bank after a flood .	if you were in charge of the mars curiosity rover and you wanted to go looking for fossils on mars , what would you look for and why ?	if you were in charge of the mars curiosity rover and you wanted to go looking for fossils on mars , what would you look for and why ?
otherwise , look at their marks . if they are plus coins , the heavier one is the imposter . if they are marked with minus , it 's the lighter one .	if you know the single counterfeit coin is heavier than the others , what is the maximum number of coins for which one weighing is guaranteed to reveal the counterfeit ?	if you know the single counterfeit coin is heavier than the others , what is the maximum number of coins for which one weighing is guaranteed to reveal the counterfeit ?
it 's not the absurdity of bureaucracy alone , but the irony of the character 's circular reasoning in reaction to it that is emblematic of kafka 's writing . his tragicomic stories act as a form of mythology for the modern industrial age , employing dream logic to explore the relationships between systems of arbitrary power and the individuals caught up in them . take , for example , kafka 's most famous story , `` metamorphosis . '' when gregor samsa awaken 's one morning to find himself transformed into a giant insect , his greatest worry is that he gets to work on time .	when we dream , we often accept absurd premises as true because they are facts of the world our mind is existing in . this is a key element of what makes a story kafkaesque : the protagonists are trapped in the framework of their own , dream-like logic . as readers , we have questions that the characters themselves do not ask because their logic does not allow these questions to occur to them . name at least two examples from kafka ’ s work of instances where characters are following dream-logic . in a more conventionally realistic story , what questions would these characters ask ?	when we dream , we often accept absurd premises as true because they are facts of the world our mind is existing in . this is a key element of what makes a story kafkaesque : the protagonists are trapped in the framework of their own , dream-like logic . as readers , we have questions that the characters themselves do not ask because their logic does not allow these questions to occur to them . name at least two examples from kafka ’ s work of instances where characters are following dream-logic . in a more conventionally realistic story , what questions would these characters ask ?
so molybdenum is an element which is essential to life and most organisms beginning with you and me and going down to bacteria have enzymes that contain molybdenum . one of the most important enzymes is so called nitrogenase which is an enzyme that will turn nitrogen into ammonia , and nitrogenase is found in various bacteria that live in the roots of plants like beans . so the beans , via these bacteria , can absorb nitrogen into the atmosphere and turn it into a form that we can digest and we need that nitrogen so that we can make the proteins in our body .	what is the most important enzyme that contains molybdenum , found in various bacteria that are associated with bean plants ?	what is the most important enzyme that contains molybdenum , found in various bacteria that are associated with bean plants ?
today , observations have shown that there is no significant amount of antimatter anywhere in the visible universe , which is weird because , like we said before , there should be just as much antimatter as there is matter in the universe . since antiparticles and particles should exist in equal numbers , this missing antimatter ? now that is a real mystery .	antimatter particles are produced under which circumstances :	antimatter particles are produced under which circumstances :
ouch ! now , have you given any thought as of whether the invisibility is permanent ? if it is , how can you receive medical treatment from a doctor if you 're injured ?	what has been achieved so far in our pursuit of invisibility ?	what has been achieved so far in our pursuit of invisibility ?
we see mistletoe as a festive decoration , but draped on tree boughs in the wild , it 's known as a partly parasitic plant . mistletoe relies on modified roots called haustoria that penetrate the tree bark and siphon off the water and minerals trees carry up their trunks to colonize nearby trees with its seeds , mistletoe depends on birds and other creatures to do the dispersing . birds that eat the mistletoe 's sticky white berries sometimes get rid of the gluey seeds by wiping them off onto tree bark .	the mistletoe ’ s modified roots are called :	the mistletoe ’ s modified roots are called :
hassia is the latin name for this part of germany hesse and hence it is named after the place it was discovered . so down here we have the accelerator that accelerated atoms of iron to bang into a lead target to make element 108 hassium . element 108 is actually in the same group of the periodic table as iron , that much i knew when i first talked about it .	which atoms were accelerated at a lead target , in the accelerator the professor showed us at gsi ?	which atoms were accelerated at a lead target , in the accelerator the professor showed us at gsi ?
answer in : 3 answer in : 2 answer in : 1 at first , it seems like there are just too many missing pieces of information . after all , you do n't know how many fish or how many tanks there are , let alone how many fish are in each one . but then you remember the best way to compare multiple pieces of partial information - a table .	the fish tanks could have landed in any one of how many different sectors ?	the fish tanks could have landed in any one of how many different sectors ?
so , really , it 's a blip in the scheme of things . since woolly mammoth 's genetic information has been so well preserved in the permafrost , where recent specimens have been discovered , scientists have been able to sequence their genomes and now different groups are trying to figure out a way to insert mammoth genes into living elephant cells and maybe , in a way , bring them back . but my question is , why mammoths ?	in order to 'bring back ' a woolly mammoth , researchers would splice their dna with dna from what animal ?	in order to 'bring back ' a woolly mammoth , researchers would splice their dna with dna from what animal ?
his tragicomic stories act as a form of mythology for the modern industrial age , employing dream logic to explore the relationships between systems of arbitrary power and the individuals caught up in them . take , for example , kafka 's most famous story , `` metamorphosis . '' when gregor samsa awaken 's one morning to find himself transformed into a giant insect , his greatest worry is that he gets to work on time .	what do you believe is the effect on the reader of stories where surreal , nightmarish situations are routine ? how does this mood shape our emotions as we read the stories ? how does the emotional state we are in when we read a story shape our understanding of that story ?	what do you believe is the effect on the reader of stories where surreal , nightmarish situations are routine ? how does this mood shape our emotions as we read the stories ? how does the emotional state we are in when we read a story shape our understanding of that story ?
and the heart muscle has this curious structure that 's kind of like corrugated cardboard . that 's what allows the heart to expand and contract as it 's beating . let 's go look at a lung with pneumonia .	what allows the heart to expand and contract ?	what allows the heart to expand and contract ?
but it 's not just their striking red hair that makes orangutans unique among our cousins . as the only great apes from asia , orangutans have adapted to a life high in the rain forest canopies . many of the skills they learn are transmitted through the special bond they have with their mothers , the most extended in the animal kingdom next to humans .	what are some advantages of living high up in the rainforest canopy ?	what are some advantages of living high up in the rainforest canopy ?
with a manual camera , we 're able to change any of the variable ourselves . different settings can result in really different pictures . let 's look at the process together .	we can get the same amount of light combining the three variables with different settings . so , why should we choose one combination or another ? describe an example .	we can get the same amount of light combining the three variables with different settings . so , why should we choose one combination or another ? describe an example .
in 1890 , the german scientists von mering and minkowski demonstrated that removing a dog 's pancreas caused it to develop all the signs of diabetes , thus establishing the organ 's central role in the disease . but the exact mechanism by which this occurred remained a mystery until 1920 , when a young canadian surgeon named frederick banting and his student , charles best , advanced the findings of their german colleagues . working under professor macleod at the university of toronto , they confirmed that the pancreas was responsible for regulating blood glucose , successfully treating diabetic dogs by injecting them with an extract they had prepared from pancreas tissue . by 1922 , the researchers working with biochemist james collip were able to develop a similar extract from beef pancreas to first treat a 14-year-old diabetic boy , followed by six additional patients .	canadian scientists banting , best and macleod first discovered that injection of a tissue extract , later shown to contain insulin , would lower blood _______ in diabetic dogs .	canadian scientists banting , best and macleod first discovered that injection of a tissue extract , later shown to contain insulin , would lower blood _______ in diabetic dogs .
and who should be making all of these decisions anyhow ? programmers ? companies ?	when an ethics judgement is needed , who should get to decide how robot cars are programmed : engineers/programmers , manufacturers/company executives , government , owner/occupants of the vehicles , the general public , or someone else ?	when an ethics judgement is needed , who should get to decide how robot cars are programmed : engineers/programmers , manufacturers/company executives , government , owner/occupants of the vehicles , the general public , or someone else ?
it tells your body to replenish your energy stores with energy dense foods and carbs , causing you to crave comfort foods . high levels of cortisol can also cause you to put on those extra calories as visceral or deep belly fat . this type of fat does n't just make it harder to button your pants .	how does cortisol add to belly fat ?	how does cortisol add to belly fat ?
so , compared with our population of about 7 billion , these invertebrates outnumber us by more than a billion to one . their astounding numbers exist at the species level , as well . there are more than 60,000 vertebrate species on the planet . but the class of insects contains a million known species , and many others that have n't been classified . in fact , these critters make up approximately 75 % of all animals on earth .	what percentage of all animal species are insects ?	what percentage of all animal species are insects ?
the scientists proposed putting cyclopamine 's smoothened binding powers to good use as a treatment for these cancers , as long as the patient was n't pregnant . unfortunately , researchers eventually found that cyclopamine causes negative side effects , and its chemical properties make it difficult to work with . but they did discover that closely related molecules are safe and effective , and two of these drugs were approved in 2012 and 2015 as skin cancer medicines .	if cyclopamine causes negative side effects , how come closely related molecules don ’ t cause the same problems ?	if cyclopamine causes negative side effects , how come closely related molecules don ’ t cause the same problems ?
the second program that i began working on was the negro league pension program . and the pension program was a program that was offered by major league baseball , and if you played four years in the negro league , and you can document it , these players would be entitled to 10,000 dollars a year . this meant a lot for these players .	if you can prove that you played 4 years in the negro leagues , you are entitled to ________ .	if you can prove that you played 4 years in the negro leagues , you are entitled to ________ .
dichromate is a fantastic oxidant and we are going to put a small amount of it in and see what happens . so gallium , i realise now is named after france . it was discovered by a frenchman and its name comes from the old name for france , gaul . so what we are doing in this experiment , we are changing the surface tension of the gallium , so these are the forces that hold the liquid into a ball or allow it to wet and flatten on the surface .	mendeleev predicted the properties of gallium before it had been discovered . what was the name he gave to this undiscovered element ?	mendeleev predicted the properties of gallium before it had been discovered . what was the name he gave to this undiscovered element ?
in the old days iodine had to be got from the environment and usually from the spray from the sea that was blown across the land , and so in nottingham , which is really near the centre of england a long way from the sea , or relatively long way from the sea , there were serious illnesses caused by people not having enough iodine . so-called goiter , which caused a swelling , the thyroid gland gets bigger , and this used to be called derbyshire neck this unpleasant illness , because it happened in this area of nottingham and derbyshire . so what weíre going to do is that we are going to mix it now with another element and that element is aluminium .	in an area near nottingham , why did several people suffer `` derbyshire neck , '' caused by a lack of iodine ( before this element was added to table salt ) ?	in an area near nottingham , why did several people suffer `` derbyshire neck , '' caused by a lack of iodine ( before this element was added to table salt ) ?
that creates 12 g3p chains instead of just two , meaning that all together , 36 carbons exist : the precise number needed to manufacture sugar , and rebuild those rubps . of the 12 g3ps pooled together , two are siphoned off to form that energy rich six carbon glucose chain . the one fueling you via your breakfast .	the calvin cycle is the second part of the photosynthesis reaction . photosynthesis stores energy from the sun as well we carbon from the air together in the high-energy molecule , glucose . does the calvin cycle itself have a use or release energy ? with energy that is used , where does it come from ?	the calvin cycle is the second part of the photosynthesis reaction . photosynthesis stores energy from the sun as well we carbon from the air together in the high-energy molecule , glucose . does the calvin cycle itself have a use or release energy ? with energy that is used , where does it come from ?
the surprising answer is : none of the above ! in fact , monetary policy is set by an independent federal reserve system , or the fed , made up of 12 regional banks in major cities around the country . its board of governors , which is appointed by the president and confirmed by the senate , reports to congress , and all the fed 's profit goes into the us treasury .	in a democracy , does it make sense to have decisions about monetary policy made by people who are not elected ? why or why not ?	in a democracy , does it make sense to have decisions about monetary policy made by people who are not elected ? why or why not ?
the surprising answer is : none of the above ! in fact , monetary policy is set by an independent federal reserve system , or the fed , made up of 12 regional banks in major cities around the country . its board of governors , which is appointed by the president and confirmed by the senate , reports to congress , and all the fed 's profit goes into the us treasury .	where do profits from the federal reserve system go ?	where do profits from the federal reserve system go ?
so , `` do not attempt to lie to me '' sounds more natural as `` do n't try to lie to me . '' also keep it short . people tend to speak in short bursts , not lengthy speeches .	why is it usually helpful to keep individual pieces of dialogue short ?	why is it usually helpful to keep individual pieces of dialogue short ?
it ’ s made from sodium chloride solution by electrolysis , by passing an electric current , and it ’ s a very energy intensive process . one percent of the uk ’ s electricity was used , at one time , for making chlorine from sodium chloride , and the chlorine is used particularly for making the plastic pvc . while we got chlorine here , we thought we ’ d do a couple of reactions .	what is the most common industrial process for making chlorine gas ?	what is the most common industrial process for making chlorine gas ?
oho ! oh , it all makes sense . give us enough to get by but not enough to provide for ourselves .	lissaint makes eloquent use of simile , as in	lissaint makes eloquent use of simile , as in
history has proven that inventions can be double-edged swords . they often carry unintended consequences . the factories of the industrial revolution spurred innovation and an economic boom in america .	we seldom think that technology or innovation can be harmful . name some instances where technology has `` gone wrong '' ? what have we done to combat this issue ? name a technology that has done incredible good for the world ( without any known negative consequences ) .	we seldom think that technology or innovation can be harmful . name some instances where technology has `` gone wrong '' ? what have we done to combat this issue ? name a technology that has done incredible good for the world ( without any known negative consequences ) .
but about 200 years ago , we began digging up that old carbon that had been stored in the soil . these fossil fuels , coal , oil and natural gas are made from the buried remains of plants and animals that died long before humans evolved . the energy stored inside them was able to power our factories , cars and power plants .	which of the following energy sources uses fossil fuels ?	which of the following energy sources uses fossil fuels ?
but about 200 years ago , we began digging up that old carbon that had been stored in the soil . these fossil fuels , coal , oil and natural gas are made from the buried remains of plants and animals that died long before humans evolved . the energy stored inside them was able to power our factories , cars and power plants .	how are fossil fuels used today ?	how are fossil fuels used today ?
there was a time when no animals lived on land . all life was in the ocean . the ocean 's where all of us animals got our start , more than half a billion years ago , this is where all animal body types -- or phyla , as scientists call them -- first evolved .	where did animal life first arise ?	where did animal life first arise ?
there was a time when no animals lived on land . all life was in the ocean . the ocean 's where all of us animals got our start , more than half a billion years ago , this is where all animal body types -- or phyla , as scientists call them -- first evolved .	when did animal life first arise ?	when did animal life first arise ?
here in the plankton , there 's more than one way to get your genes into the next generation . most medusa jellies make special structures called polyps , that simply bud off babies with no need for sex . salps are similar .	compare and contrast how medusa jellies , salps , and comb jellies reproduce .	compare and contrast how medusa jellies , salps , and comb jellies reproduce .
here in the plankton , there 's more than one way to get your genes into the next generation . most medusa jellies make special structures called polyps , that simply bud off babies with no need for sex . salps are similar .	how do medusa jellies produce babies ?	how do medusa jellies produce babies ?
here in the plankton , there 's more than one way to get your genes into the next generation . most medusa jellies make special structures called polyps , that simply bud off babies with no need for sex . salps are similar .	what do you think are the benefits and disadvantages of the varying reproductive habits of medusa jellies , salps and comb jellies ?	what do you think are the benefits and disadvantages of the varying reproductive habits of medusa jellies , salps and comb jellies ?
in the meantime , i 'm going to give it a name . it 's one step away from aluminum , so we 'll call it eka-aluminum , `` eka '' being sanskrit for one . nobody 's found eka-aluminum yet , so we do n't know anything about it , right ?	what is the english translation for the sanskrit word 'eka ' ?	what is the english translation for the sanskrit word 'eka ' ?
but that leaves a real riddle . in the past year , the kepler space observatory has found hundreds of planets just around nearby stars , and if you extrapolate that data , it looks like there could be half a trillion planets just in our own galaxy . if any one in 10,000 has conditions that might support a form of life , that 's still 50 million possible life-harboring planets right here in the milky way .	according to anderson , if we extrapolate the kepler data , how many life-supporting planets could there be in our galaxy ?	according to anderson , if we extrapolate the kepler data , how many life-supporting planets could there be in our galaxy ?
about a quarter second after that muscle contracts , the vocal cords snap shut , creating the characteristic [ hic ] . scientists still aren ’ t sure what causes em , but possible explanations include hiccups being an evolutionary remnant from a few hundred million years ago when our ancestors still had to pump water over their gills . or , since hiccups mainly happen in mammals , that they started as a way for nursing infants to clear air from their stomachs .	how might hiccups be an evolutionary remnant or vestigial reflex ?	how might hiccups be an evolutionary remnant or vestigial reflex ?
it 's about as far from a safe as you could get . we 've used three dials . that kind of makes things a bit more visual , a bit easier to understand looking at it in that way .	how many total combinations are possible when you account for all three locks ?	how many total combinations are possible when you account for all three locks ?
try to measure a circle . the diameter and radius are easy , they 're just straight lines you can measure with a ruler .	which parts of a circle are easy to measure and why ?	which parts of a circle are easy to measure and why ?
and in the year 70 , the romans destroyed the temple in their capital , jerusalem . so , the religion transformed itself from a temple religion with sacrifices and priests to a religion of the book . because of this , judaism is a faith of symbolism , reverence , and deep meanings tied to the literature of its history .	which of the following pairs of founders is considered by `` their '' religion to be god in human form ?	which of the following pairs of founders is considered by `` their '' religion to be god in human form ?
we can use scientific notation to express these large numbers in a much more manageable format . so we can write 299,792,458 meters per second as 3.0 times 10 to the eighth meters per second . correct scientific notation requires that the first term range in value so that it is greater than one but less than 10 , and the second term represents the power of 10 or order of magnitude by which we multiply the first term .	what travels at 299,792,458 meters per second ?	what travels at 299,792,458 meters per second ?
this magical moment is so critical that a majority of men and women have reported losing their attraction to someone after a bad first kiss . once attraction is confirmed , your bloodstream is flooded with norepinephrine , activating your fight or flight system . your heart beats faster , your pupils dilate , and your body releases glucose for additional energy , not because you 're in danger but because your body is telling you that something important is happening .	once attraction is confirmed , your bloodstream floods with what ?	once attraction is confirmed , your bloodstream floods with what ?
it 's called the thyroid . like the operations manager in a company , its role is to make sure that the cells in your body are working properly . it does that by using hormones to deliver messages to every single one of them . this high-ranking organ is made up of lobules that each contains smaller cells called follicles , which store the hormones the thyroid sends out into your blood .	looks up thyroxine and triiodothyronine and try to explain how they deliver messages to the body 's cells .	looks up thyroxine and triiodothyronine and try to explain how they deliver messages to the body 's cells .
thorns , spines , and prickles discourage bigger herbivores . to deal with smaller pests , some plants ' leaves have sharp hair-like structures called trichomes . the kidney bean plant sports tiny hooks to stab the feet of bed bugs and other insects .	trichomes are little hair-like structures that :	trichomes are little hair-like structures that :
this could mean avoiding complex clauses that are hard to parse in real time , making changes to avoid awkward pronounciation , or removing sounds to make speech faster . the linguistic approach that tries to understand and map such differences without dictating correct ones is known as descriptivism . rather than deciding how language should be used , it describes how people actually use it , and tracks the innovations they come up with in the process .	descriptivism is an approach to examining language which :	descriptivism is an approach to examining language which :
khafre ’ s had a slight twist near the top in order to make the edges line up evenly . what ’ s remarkable is egypt ’ s biggest stone pyramids were the product of just three human generations , but those were generations full of trial and error . pyramid building continued for nearly 700 years , and like any product , efficiency started to win out over quality .	egypt 's great stone pyramids were the work of how many generations of egyptians ?	egypt 's great stone pyramids were the work of how many generations of egyptians ?
and even though smallpox remains the only success story thus far , several other pathogens may be next in line . great progress has been made towards eradicating guinea worm disease simply by use of water filters . and vaccination for polio , which previously disabled hundreds of thousands of people each year is estimated to have prevented 13 million cases of paralysis , and 650,000 deaths since 1988 .	guinea worm disease is nearly eradicated thanks to which effective intervention	guinea worm disease is nearly eradicated thanks to which effective intervention
the war weakened china 's global standing for over a century . the british east india company also wanted to be able to grow tea themselves and further control the market . so they commissioned botanist robert fortune to steal tea from china in a covert operation . he disguised himself and took a perilous journey through china 's mountainous tea regions , eventually smuggling tea trees and experienced tea workers into darjeeling , india . from there , the plant spread further still , helping drive tea 's rapid growth as an everyday commodity .	the british originally traded what for tea ?	the british originally traded what for tea ?
vampyroteuthis infernalis . the vampire squid . incredibly cool .	how did the vampire squid get its name ?	how did the vampire squid get its name ?
well , now we can by looking at the brains of people who are already going through surgery for clinical reasons , like curing epilepsy . epilepsy is a disease in which a faulty part of the brain starts working spontaneously for no apparent reason . it 's like an earthquake but inside your head .	what is it called when a faulty part of the brain starts working spontaneously for no apparent reason ?	what is it called when a faulty part of the brain starts working spontaneously for no apparent reason ?
well , now we can by looking at the brains of people who are already going through surgery for clinical reasons , like curing epilepsy . epilepsy is a disease in which a faulty part of the brain starts working spontaneously for no apparent reason . it 's like an earthquake but inside your head .	how do doctors pinpoint a faulty part of the brain ?	how do doctors pinpoint a faulty part of the brain ?
the very first immortal human cell line . gey labeled it `` hela '' after the patient with the unusual tumor , henrietta lacks . born on a tobacco farm in virginia , she lived in baltimore with her husband and five children .	what type of cancer killed henrietta lacks ?	what type of cancer killed henrietta lacks ?
the very first immortal human cell line . gey labeled it `` hela '' after the patient with the unusual tumor , henrietta lacks . born on a tobacco farm in virginia , she lived in baltimore with her husband and five children .	dr. gey took a sample of the tumor cells from henrietta lacks without her or her family ’ s permission . he then gave away sample of hela cells to labs all over the world . while dr. gey did not profit from hela , the lacks family was completely unaware of henrietta ’ s contributions to science for decades . do you think what dr. gey did was ethical , and do you think this type of situation would happen today ? why or why not ?	dr. gey took a sample of the tumor cells from henrietta lacks without her or her family ’ s permission . he then gave away sample of hela cells to labs all over the world . while dr. gey did not profit from hela , the lacks family was completely unaware of henrietta ’ s contributions to science for decades . do you think what dr. gey did was ethical , and do you think this type of situation would happen today ? why or why not ?
for instance , we could know every physical detail about the structure and function of someone else 's brain , but still not understand what it feels like to be that person . these ineffable experiences have properties called qualia , subjective qualities that you ca n't accurately describe or measure . qualia are unique to the person experiencing them , like having an itch , being in love , or feeling bored .	what is the philosophical term for ineffable properties of experiences ?	what is the philosophical term for ineffable properties of experiences ?
death and taxes are famously inevitable , but what about decomposition ? as anyone who 's seen a mummy knows , ancient egyptians went to a lot of trouble to evade decomposition .	is decomposition inevitable ? back up your answer with three pieces of evidence .	is decomposition inevitable ? back up your answer with three pieces of evidence .
music training was intended not only as social skills suitable for young ladies but also as potential careers for those who might fail to make good marriages . even in the composer 's own time , vivaldi 's music served as diversion for all , not just for the wealthy aristocrats . 300 years later , it 's an approach that still works , and vivaldi 's music still sounds like trotting horses on the move .	what other superstar composer lived at the same time as vivaldi ?	what other superstar composer lived at the same time as vivaldi ?
music training was intended not only as social skills suitable for young ladies but also as potential careers for those who might fail to make good marriages . even in the composer 's own time , vivaldi 's music served as diversion for all , not just for the wealthy aristocrats . 300 years later , it 's an approach that still works , and vivaldi 's music still sounds like trotting horses on the move .	vivaldi was composing at a time in history when there had been major improvements to the ways in which string instruments were made , allowing them to sound stronger and be capable of playing even more difficult music . in part for this reason , he chose to focus nearly all of his compositions on strings instruments , such as violins and cellos . in what other ways have technological developments brought new ideas into the music business , even in recent years ?	vivaldi was composing at a time in history when there had been major improvements to the ways in which string instruments were made , allowing them to sound stronger and be capable of playing even more difficult music . in part for this reason , he chose to focus nearly all of his compositions on strings instruments , such as violins and cellos . in what other ways have technological developments brought new ideas into the music business , even in recent years ?
freud described a conflict between three parts of our minds : the id driven by the pleasure principle , and the the superego driven by a desire to follow the rules and do the right thing according to society . and the ego which has to somehow accomodate the two . to understand more about these dynamics , freud urged us to think back to the origins of our neuroses in childhood .	explain the relationship between the id , the superego and the ego .	explain the relationship between the id , the superego and the ego .
if two neurons communicate repeatedly , a remarkable thing happens : the efficiency of communication between them increases . this process , called long term potentiation , is considered to be a mechanism by which memories are stored long-term , but how do some memories get lost ? age is one factor .	long term potentiation is a mechanism by which :	long term potentiation is a mechanism by which :
if two neurons communicate repeatedly , a remarkable thing happens : the efficiency of communication between them increases . this process , called long term potentiation , is considered to be a mechanism by which memories are stored long-term , but how do some memories get lost ? age is one factor .	the major factor that promotes our ability to retrieve information from long-term memory is :	the major factor that promotes our ability to retrieve information from long-term memory is :
six is the lowest number of guests where that 's guaranteed to be the case , which we can express like this . ramsey theory gives us a guarantee that such a minimum number exists for certain patterns , but no easy way to find it . in this case , as the total number of guests grows higher , the combinations get out of control .	where are some other areas that one might be able to apply ramsey theory to guarantee that certain patterns or structures exist ?	where are some other areas that one might be able to apply ramsey theory to guarantee that certain patterns or structures exist ?
finally , countries in advanced stages of industrialization reach a point where both birth and death rates are low , and the population remains stable or even begins to decline . now , let 's take a look at the projected population pyramids for the same three countries in 2050 . what do these tell us about the expected changes in each country 's population , and what kinds of factors can alter the shape of these future pyramids ?	which continent would have the most fast growth pyramids	which continent would have the most fast growth pyramids
could it be true that the greatest writer in the english language was as fictional as his plays ? most shakespeare scholars dismiss these theories based on historical and biographical evidence . but there is another way to test whether shakespeare 's famous lines were actually written by someone else .	research and describe the shakespeare identity debate . how have scholars framed their arguments over the decades ? what tools did they use to analyze evidence surrounding the identity of shakespeare ?	research and describe the shakespeare identity debate . how have scholars framed their arguments over the decades ? what tools did they use to analyze evidence surrounding the identity of shakespeare ?
usually they cancel each other out , but when the wavelength of the reflected light matches the distance between the two reflections , they reinforce each other . green light has a wavelength of about 500 nanometers , so melanosomes that are about 500 nanometers across give off green light , thinner melanosomes give off purple light , and thicker ones give off red light . of course , it 's more complex than this .	green light has a wavelength of approximately how many nanometers ?	green light has a wavelength of approximately how many nanometers ?
usually they cancel each other out , but when the wavelength of the reflected light matches the distance between the two reflections , they reinforce each other . green light has a wavelength of about 500 nanometers , so melanosomes that are about 500 nanometers across give off green light , thinner melanosomes give off purple light , and thicker ones give off red light . of course , it 's more complex than this .	in general , thinner melanosomes give off _____ light , and thicker melanosomes give off _____ light .	in general , thinner melanosomes give off _____ light , and thicker melanosomes give off _____ light .
usually they cancel each other out , but when the wavelength of the reflected light matches the distance between the two reflections , they reinforce each other . green light has a wavelength of about 500 nanometers , so melanosomes that are about 500 nanometers across give off green light , thinner melanosomes give off purple light , and thicker ones give off red light . of course , it 's more complex than this .	give an example of a bird , and discuss how its coloration helps it adapt to its environment .	give an example of a bird , and discuss how its coloration helps it adapt to its environment .
societies themselves are neurotic–that is how they function - and it ’ s why there are constant wars and other troubles . freud attempted to invent a treatment for our many neuroses : psychoanalysis . he thought that with a little proper analysis , people could uncover what ails them and better adjust to the difficulties of reality .	freud believed that society put too many restrictions on people , which lead to large-scale societal neuroses . what are his examples of this ?	freud believed that society put too many restrictions on people , which lead to large-scale societal neuroses . what are his examples of this ?
just like the most intriguing superheroes often have their own dark powers to overcome , so we can try and keep coal 's negative forces in check . but why do n't we just exterminate coal if it takes that much effort to clean it up ? simply , coal is extremely valuable to us , and it 's easy to come by .	clean coal technologies are n't very widespread because :	clean coal technologies are n't very widespread because :
it 's beyond , you know , anything i could 've ever dreamt of . the planetary system is called trappist-1 after the belgian-operated telescope in chile . trappist found two planets in 2016 .	what is the name of the planetary system ?	what is the name of the planetary system ?
but we know now that 's not how genetic inheritance works . in fact , individual organisms do n't evolve at all . instead , random genetic mutations cause some giraffes to be born with longer necks , and that gives them a better chance to survive than the ones who were n't so lucky , which brings us to `` survival of the fittest '' .	why do some non- ‘ ideal ’ traits exist in organisms ?	why do some non- ‘ ideal ’ traits exist in organisms ?
after the french revolution erupted in 1789 , europe was thrown into chaos . neighboring countries ' monarchs feared they would share the fate of louis xvi , and attacked the new republic , while at home , extremism and mistrust between factions lead to bloodshed .	why did neighboring countries attack france following the 1789 revolution ?	why did neighboring countries attack france following the 1789 revolution ?
after the french revolution erupted in 1789 , europe was thrown into chaos . neighboring countries ' monarchs feared they would share the fate of louis xvi , and attacked the new republic , while at home , extremism and mistrust between factions lead to bloodshed .	which of the following is not a legacy attributed to napoleon ?	which of the following is not a legacy attributed to napoleon ?
after the french revolution erupted in 1789 , europe was thrown into chaos . neighboring countries ' monarchs feared they would share the fate of louis xvi , and attacked the new republic , while at home , extremism and mistrust between factions lead to bloodshed .	in what ways did napoleon uphold the ideals of the french revolution , and how did he subvert them ?	in what ways did napoleon uphold the ideals of the french revolution , and how did he subvert them ?
and that axial tilt of the earth is one of the main reasons for the seasons . the earth spins on an axis that 's tilted 23.5 degrees from vertical . at the same time , the earth revolves around the sun with the axis always pointing in the same direction in space .	currently , the earth 's rotational axis is tilted by how many degrees ?	currently , the earth 's rotational axis is tilted by how many degrees ?
well , at the turn of the 20th century , chemists charles overton and hans meyer demonstrated that the cell membrane is composed of substances that , like oil , have a water-loving part and a water-loathing part . we now call these substances lipids . in 1925 , two scientists , evert gorter and francois grendel , pushed our understanding further .	what do we call molecules that have a hydrophilic head and a hydrophobic tail ?	what do we call molecules that have a hydrophilic head and a hydrophobic tail ?
for example , research shows that asking someone about suicidal thoughts actually reduces their suicide risk . open conversations about mental illness help erode stigma and make it easier for people to ask for help . and the more patients seek treatment , the more scientists will learn about depression , and the better the treatments will get .	because of ongoing stigma and misperceptions about mental illness , many people are reluctant to seek help from a psychiatrist . how can you help your friend or relative reach out for professional treatment if they are depressed ?	because of ongoing stigma and misperceptions about mental illness , many people are reluctant to seek help from a psychiatrist . how can you help your friend or relative reach out for professional treatment if they are depressed ?
at the passover meal , every item on the menu symbolizes an aspect of the escape from slavery . the importance of growing up is emphasized when young people reach the age of bar and bat mitzvah , ceremonies during which they assume responsibility for their actions and celebrate the weaving of their own lives into the faith , history , and texts of the jewish people . there are 14 million jews in the world today , 6 million in israel , which became independent following the horrors of genocide in world war ii , and 5 million in the united states .	the bar or bat mitzvah is a coming-of-age ceremony in ________ .	the bar or bat mitzvah is a coming-of-age ceremony in ________ .
clocks came next . in 1761 , john harrison , an english clockmaker and carpenter , built a clock that could keep accurate time at sea . the timepiece that could maintain accurate time while on a pitching , yawing deck in harsh conditions was necessary in order to know the time back in england .	what was different about john harrison 's clock ( invented in 1761 ) ?	what was different about john harrison 's clock ( invented in 1761 ) ?
for example , levels of chlorine byproducts , like trihalomethanes , could skyrocket , leading to pipe corrosion and the release of iron , copper , and lead into drinking water . water contamination from these and other sources including leaching , chemical spills , and runoffs , has been linked to long-term health effects , like cancer , cardiovascular and neurological diseases , and miscarriage . unfortunately , analyzing the exact risks of chemically contaminated water is difficult . so while it 's clear that disinfectants make us safer by removing disease-causing pathogens , experts have yet to determine the full scope of how the chemical cocktail in our drinking water really impacts human health . so how can you tell whether the water you have access to , whether from a tap or otherwise , is drinkable ?	what are some chronic health effects from exposure to unclean water .	what are some chronic health effects from exposure to unclean water .
most likely , you looked at a tree or plant and noticed details about its leaves and assessed the qualities of sunlight streaming outside . observing the timing of biological events in relation to changes in season and climate is called `` phenology '' . when you notice the daffodil buds are poking through the snow and think spring is on its way , you 're using phenology . when you see leaves turn from green to red , and watch migrating birds fly past , and realize that summer is over , autumn is here , you 're using phenology . literally meaning , `` the science of appearance '' , phenology comes from the greek words `` pheno , '' to show or appear , and `` logos , '' to study . humans have relied on phenology since the time of hunters and gatherers . we 've watched changes in seasons to know when to plant and harvest food and when to track migrating animals .	what is phenology ?	what is phenology ?
she was very practical about it . she even designed the first reclining shampoo chair , though she neglected to patent the invention . martha 's salon was a huge success .	oops ! harper forgot to patent this invention :	oops ! harper forgot to patent this invention :
these numbers , which we call irrational numbers , were perceived as a threat to the pythagorean 's notion of a perfect universe . they imagined a reality that could be described with rational , numerical patterns . historians write that hippasus was exhiled for publicizing his findings , while legends claim he was drowned as punishment from the gods .	what is a rational number ?	what is a rational number ?
cobalt is , in many ways , similar to iron . it can form magnets . so this cobalt has been generated from a solution and it ’ s been made in very , very finely dispersed so it has a very large surface area .	as pete explains , the perfect form for a catalyst to promote chemical reactions is as a very fine powder . why would this be ?	as pete explains , the perfect form for a catalyst to promote chemical reactions is as a very fine powder . why would this be ?
while the american colonies eventually cast off england 's rule , its legal tradition of the jury persisted . the united states constitution instructed a grand jury to decide whether criminal cases proceeded , required a jury to try all crimes , except impeachment , and provided for juries in civil cases as well . yet , in the us today , grand juries often are not convened , and juries decide less than 4 % of criminal cases and less than 1 % of civil cases filed in court . that 's at the same time as jury systems in other countries are growing .	juries decide less than __ percent of civil cases and less than __ percent of criminal cases .	juries decide less than __ percent of civil cases and less than __ percent of criminal cases .
while the american colonies eventually cast off england 's rule , its legal tradition of the jury persisted . the united states constitution instructed a grand jury to decide whether criminal cases proceeded , required a jury to try all crimes , except impeachment , and provided for juries in civil cases as well . yet , in the us today , grand juries often are not convened , and juries decide less than 4 % of criminal cases and less than 1 % of civil cases filed in court . that 's at the same time as jury systems in other countries are growing .	juries can decide cases . describe another entity that can decide cases instead of juries and consider why this body can either preferable or not preferable to a jury .	juries can decide cases . describe another entity that can decide cases instead of juries and consider why this body can either preferable or not preferable to a jury .
while the american colonies eventually cast off england 's rule , its legal tradition of the jury persisted . the united states constitution instructed a grand jury to decide whether criminal cases proceeded , required a jury to try all crimes , except impeachment , and provided for juries in civil cases as well . yet , in the us today , grand juries often are not convened , and juries decide less than 4 % of criminal cases and less than 1 % of civil cases filed in court . that 's at the same time as jury systems in other countries are growing .	in the united states today , juries do not decide many cases . what reasons can be given for giving them more or less authority ?	in the united states today , juries do not decide many cases . what reasons can be given for giving them more or less authority ?
so this is iron wire , ok , and as you can it is a very small wire . it is 0.2 in diameter and you can see the shiny material underneath is iron that has not undergone oxidation so this is where it has been protected from the oxygen in the air now if we look at the iron at the top we can see that this looks really familiar especially because it looks like some of the rust which we can see at the bottom of some of our cars . so here is some iron oxide on top of the iron .	what is the composition of rust ?	what is the composition of rust ?
on october 4 , 1957 , the world watched in awe and fear as the soviet union launched sputnik , the world 's first man-made satellite , into space . this little metal ball , smaller than two feet in diameter , launched a space race between the u.s. and u.s.s.r. that would last for eighteen years and change the world as we know it .	what happened on october 4 , 1957 ?	what happened on october 4 , 1957 ?
but have you ever wondered how tattooing really works ? you may know that we shed our skin , losing about 30-40,000 skin cells per hour . that 's about 1,000,000 per day .	skin thickness can vary , depending on its anatomic location and the sex and age of the individual . there is even an additional layer called the stratum lucidum on the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands . explain how skin thickness may affect the vibrancy and longevity of the tattoo art .	skin thickness can vary , depending on its anatomic location and the sex and age of the individual . there is even an additional layer called the stratum lucidum on the soles of the feet and the palms of the hands . explain how skin thickness may affect the vibrancy and longevity of the tattoo art .
yet there i stood , my three teammates by my side , facing the opportunity to make history . my mind wandered , just for half a second , but that half-second was filled with a lifetime of memories , and two decisions that brought me here to the top of the mountain . i made the first decision after a very challenging period in my career as an athlete -- five years of recurring injuries as a track athlete .	how many decisions did mesler attribute to reaching the top of the mountain ?	how many decisions did mesler attribute to reaching the top of the mountain ?
`` who 's in charge here ! '' `` the claw ! '' the question of whether claw machines are a game of skill or chance goes back decades .	who controls how often someone wins a prize from the claw machine ?	who controls how often someone wins a prize from the claw machine ?
`` who 's in charge here ! '' `` the claw ! '' the question of whether claw machines are a game of skill or chance goes back decades .	most contemporary regulations on claw machines focus on the value of the prizes not the strength or programming of the claw . based on what you learned from this video , why do you think that is ?	most contemporary regulations on claw machines focus on the value of the prizes not the strength or programming of the claw . based on what you learned from this video , why do you think that is ?
which is the hardest word to translate in this sentence ? `` know '' is easy to translate . `` pep rally '' does n't have a direct analog in a lot of languages and cultures , but can be approximated .	if somebody wanted to translate the phrase “ you did it ! ” into spanish , and they knew that the speaker used “ you ” to refer to more than one person , what additional information would they not first need to find out ?	if somebody wanted to translate the phrase “ you did it ! ” into spanish , and they knew that the speaker used “ you ” to refer to more than one person , what additional information would they not first need to find out ?
more than a century after first emerging into the fog-bound , gas-lit streets of victorian london , sherlock holmes is universally recognizable . even his wardrobe and accessories are iconic : the inverness cape , deerstalker hat , and calabash pipe , and figures such as his best friend and housemate doctor watson , arch-nemesis moriarty , and housekeeper mrs. hudson have become part of the popular consciousness , as have his extraordinary , infallible powers of deduction utilized in the name of the law , his notorious drug use , and his popular catchphrase , `` elementary , my dear watson . ''	what century did the fictional sherlock holmes first live in ?	what century did the fictional sherlock holmes first live in ?
in fact , you can also have an inner animal based on your birth month , a true animal based on your birth date , and a secret animal based on your birth hour . it was the great race that supposedly determined which animals were enshrined in the chinese zodiac , but as the system spread through asia , other cultures made changes to reflect their communities . so if you consult the vietnamese zodiac , you may discover that you 're a cat , not a rabbit , and if you 're in thailand , a mythical snake called a naga replaces the dragon .	which of these animals is not represented in the chinese zodiac ?	which of these animals is not represented in the chinese zodiac ?
in fact , you can also have an inner animal based on your birth month , a true animal based on your birth date , and a secret animal based on your birth hour . it was the great race that supposedly determined which animals were enshrined in the chinese zodiac , but as the system spread through asia , other cultures made changes to reflect their communities . so if you consult the vietnamese zodiac , you may discover that you 're a cat , not a rabbit , and if you 're in thailand , a mythical snake called a naga replaces the dragon .	how many different combinations of animals , elements and yin/yang are there total in the chinese zodiac ?	how many different combinations of animals , elements and yin/yang are there total in the chinese zodiac ?
in fact , you can also have an inner animal based on your birth month , a true animal based on your birth date , and a secret animal based on your birth hour . it was the great race that supposedly determined which animals were enshrined in the chinese zodiac , but as the system spread through asia , other cultures made changes to reflect their communities . so if you consult the vietnamese zodiac , you may discover that you 're a cat , not a rabbit , and if you 're in thailand , a mythical snake called a naga replaces the dragon .	how has the chinese zodiac changed as it spread through asia ?	how has the chinese zodiac changed as it spread through asia ?
in fact , you can also have an inner animal based on your birth month , a true animal based on your birth date , and a secret animal based on your birth hour . it was the great race that supposedly determined which animals were enshrined in the chinese zodiac , but as the system spread through asia , other cultures made changes to reflect their communities . so if you consult the vietnamese zodiac , you may discover that you 're a cat , not a rabbit , and if you 're in thailand , a mythical snake called a naga replaces the dragon .	compare and contrast the chinese zodiac with another system , such as western astrology . how are they similar ? how are they different ?	compare and contrast the chinese zodiac with another system , such as western astrology . how are they similar ? how are they different ?
these can place powerful evolutionary pressures on animals to adapt , which in turn makes the aging process different across species . consider the cold depths of the atlantic and arctic seas , where greenland sharks can live to over 400 years , and the arctic clam known as the quahog can live up to 500 . perhaps the most impressive of these ocean-dwelling ancients is the antarctic glass sponge , which can survive over 10,000 years in frigid waters .	how long have arctic glass sponges been estimated to live ?	how long have arctic glass sponges been estimated to live ?
first , scientists dissolve boiled egg whites in water with a chemical called urea , a small molecule that acts as a lubricant , coating the proteins ' long strands and making it easier for them to glide past each other . then , they spin that solution in a glass tube at a breakneck 5000 rotations per minute , making the solution spread out into a thin film . here 's the key part .	in the vortex fluid device , the solution closet to the walls of the tube :	in the vortex fluid device , the solution closet to the walls of the tube :
carbon is one of the very few elements ; that has given rise to a whole area of chemistry . organic chemistry ; the chemistry of carbon compounds , is almost a separate discipline from some of the areas of chemistry and most of the molecules that we use for plastics , for pharmaceutical products , for our food are all carbon compounds . carbon is an extremely common element but it comes in a number of different allotropes , so different forms and this one here ; this is actually some charcoal , which is just simple carbon .	what is the name of the discipline of chemistry that focuses on carbon compounds ?	what is the name of the discipline of chemistry that focuses on carbon compounds ?
they surround the modern city of istanbul , constantinople as the romans called it . and for a thousand years , the fate of europe depended on them . constantinople was designed to be the center of the world . when the frontiers of the roman empire began to crumble in the 4th century , the capital was moved to the cultured , wealthy , and still stable east .	how might the world be different if constantinople hadn ’ t successfully defended itself for a thousand years ? how would western history look without most of its greek and roman legacy ?	how might the world be different if constantinople hadn ’ t successfully defended itself for a thousand years ? how would western history look without most of its greek and roman legacy ?
these were administered when proper drugs were n't available , or if someone imagined they were ill . in fact , the word placebo means `` i shall please '' in latin , hinting at a history of placating troubled patients . placebos had to mimic the real treatments in order to be convincing , so they took the form of sugar pills , water-filled injections , and even sham surgeries .	the term placebo ’ comes from latin , and means :	the term placebo ’ comes from latin , and means :
recently , neuroscientists have found that a subset of mirror neurons allows us to empathize with others ' feelings at a deeper level . ( yawn ) scientists discovered this empathetic response to yawning while testing the first hypothesis we mentioned , fixed action pattern . this study was set up to show that dogs would enact a yawn reflex at the mere sound of a human yawn .	in your own words , explain why contagious yawning may not simply be a ‘ reflex ’ to the sight or sound of a yawn , as theorized by the fixed action pattern hypothesis .	in your own words , explain why contagious yawning may not simply be a ‘ reflex ’ to the sight or sound of a yawn , as theorized by the fixed action pattern hypothesis .
they were interpreted as requiring ads to include all of the information about the drug ’ s risks and side effects , which simply wasn ’ t feasible to do in a tv or radio commercial the way it was in a magazine . there was a bizarre loophole though : the ads didn ’ t have to mention the drug ’ s risks , if they also didn ’ t mention the disease or condition that the drug was supposed to treat . here ’ s what that looked like — in an ad for claritin back before it was available over the counter : `` it ’ s time . ''	until 1997 , because of fda regulations , drug commercials on tv did n't have to mention the side effects of the drug , if they did n't mention ...	until 1997 , because of fda regulations , drug commercials on tv did n't have to mention the side effects of the drug , if they did n't mention ...
but while medical experimentation on animals remains controversial , in this case at least , it was not just a matter of exploiting dogs for human needs . dogs develop diabetes at the rate of two cases per 1,000 dogs , almost the same as that of humans under 20 . most canine cases are of type 1 diabetes , similar to the type that young children develop following immune system destruction of the pancreas , and genetic studies have shown that the dog disease has many similar hallmarks of the human disease .	why do some breeds of dogs have a higher prevalence of diabetes than others ?	why do some breeds of dogs have a higher prevalence of diabetes than others ?
but while medical experimentation on animals remains controversial , in this case at least , it was not just a matter of exploiting dogs for human needs . dogs develop diabetes at the rate of two cases per 1,000 dogs , almost the same as that of humans under 20 . most canine cases are of type 1 diabetes , similar to the type that young children develop following immune system destruction of the pancreas , and genetic studies have shown that the dog disease has many similar hallmarks of the human disease .	dogs suffer from type ___ diabetes mellitus at about the same rate as human patients less than 20 years old .	dogs suffer from type ___ diabetes mellitus at about the same rate as human patients less than 20 years old .
i mean , probably . but there is a microorganism called toxoplasma that needs both cats and rodents to complete its life cycle . when a rat gets infected by eating cat feces , the parasite changes chemical levels in the rat 's brain , making it less cautious around the hungry felines , maybe even attracted to them . this makes them easy prey , so these infected rodents get eaten and pass the parasite on .	some researchers have suggested that toxoplasma makes rats attracted to cats by increasing dopamine levels in the rat brain . design an experiment to test this hypothesis .	some researchers have suggested that toxoplasma makes rats attracted to cats by increasing dopamine levels in the rat brain . design an experiment to test this hypothesis .
you can see it 's open in the bottom frame , where the red arrows are . but not all whales have two nostrils . whales include the groups of dolphins and porpoises , and dolphins and porpoises , the small whales , have only one nostril on the top of their head , and they open and close that nostril by taking what is essentially an upper lip , like this , and turning it back over their nose , like this .	all whales derive from a common land-dwelling ancestor , but diverged over time along two different evolutionary paths , resulting in two different groups : toothed whales ( including dolphins , porpoises , and sperm whales ) and baleen whales ( including fin , blue , and humpback whales ) . what are some of the differences in their anatomy , and how do these differences affect sound production ?	all whales derive from a common land-dwelling ancestor , but diverged over time along two different evolutionary paths , resulting in two different groups : toothed whales ( including dolphins , porpoises , and sperm whales ) and baleen whales ( including fin , blue , and humpback whales ) . what are some of the differences in their anatomy , and how do these differences affect sound production ?
i love buying and selling and making connections . '' she also said , `` i do n't like systems , financial sheets or plans . '' yes , no matter how much we love what we do , there 's always going to be stuff we do n't love .	anita roddick said she loved retailing , but she didn ’ t like `` systems , financial sheets or plans . '' there will always be stuff we don ’ t like , but have to do . 1 ) what stuff do you not like to do ? 2 ) are you spending 80 percent of your time on what you love , or 80 percent on the stuff you don ’ t like ? 3 ) think of ways you can spend more time doing what you love and write them down .	anita roddick said she loved retailing , but she didn ’ t like `` systems , financial sheets or plans . '' there will always be stuff we don ’ t like , but have to do . 1 ) what stuff do you not like to do ? 2 ) are you spending 80 percent of your time on what you love , or 80 percent on the stuff you don ’ t like ? 3 ) think of ways you can spend more time doing what you love and write them down .
and there is also romantic advice to be gained from pavlov 's observations . we all need food to survive , right ? and someone who can provide such things in a delicious , saliva-producing manner stands to become our human equivalent of a ringing bell .	to make dogs drool at the sound of a bell , one would need to present food :	to make dogs drool at the sound of a bell , one would need to present food :
the third form of power is state action , government . this is the use of law and bureaucracy to compel people to do or not do certain things . in a democracy , for example , we the people , theoretically , give government its power through elections .	using law and bureaucracy to compel people to do and not do certain things is called _____ .	using law and bureaucracy to compel people to do and not do certain things is called _____ .
to do this , you 'll need to reassemble the piles . one method is to replace three of the plus coins with three of the minus coins , and replace those with three of the zero coins . > from here , you have three possibilities .	if you know the single counterfeit coin is lighter than the others , what is the maximum number of coins for which three weighs are guaranteed to reveal the counterfeit ?	if you know the single counterfeit coin is lighter than the others , what is the maximum number of coins for which three weighs are guaranteed to reveal the counterfeit ?
the panic subsided , but the vampire had already taken root in western europe 's imagination , spawning works like `` the vampyre '' in 1819 , and joseph sheridan le fanu 's `` carmilla '' in 1872 . this book would greatly influence a young irish drama critic named bram stoker . stoker , who was born in dublin in 1847 , was famously bedridden with an unknown illness until the age of seven .	bram stoker was heavily influenced by ______ , a gothic novella first published in book form in 1872 , which may have started his mind on the path of vampire fiction .	bram stoker was heavily influenced by ______ , a gothic novella first published in book form in 1872 , which may have started his mind on the path of vampire fiction .
the panic subsided , but the vampire had already taken root in western europe 's imagination , spawning works like `` the vampyre '' in 1819 , and joseph sheridan le fanu 's `` carmilla '' in 1872 . this book would greatly influence a young irish drama critic named bram stoker . stoker , who was born in dublin in 1847 , was famously bedridden with an unknown illness until the age of seven .	bram stoker did not begin his career as a writer of fiction . in fact , it was as a ______ that he began his professional writing experience .	bram stoker did not begin his career as a writer of fiction . in fact , it was as a ______ that he began his professional writing experience .
it just feels wrong for reasons that are hard to explain . this intersection between ethics and psychology is what 's so interesting about the trolley problem . the dilemma in its many variations reveal that what we think is right or wrong depends on factors other than a logical weighing of the pros and cons .	the lesson discusses a common variation on the trolley problem that involves :	the lesson discusses a common variation on the trolley problem that involves :
it just feels wrong for reasons that are hard to explain . this intersection between ethics and psychology is what 's so interesting about the trolley problem . the dilemma in its many variations reveal that what we think is right or wrong depends on factors other than a logical weighing of the pros and cons .	why might the trolley problem be relevant to engineers developing technology for driverless cars ?	why might the trolley problem be relevant to engineers developing technology for driverless cars ?
and all this in the customary dress of her day , floor-length gowns . as photography had not yet been perfected , marianne 's paintings gave botanists back in europe their first glimpses of some of the world 's most unusual plants , like the giant pitcher plant of borneo , the african torch lily , and the many other species named for her as she was the first european to catalog them in the wild . meanwhile , back in london , miss mary kingsley was the sheltered daughter of a traveling doctor who loved hearing her father 's tales of native customs in africa .	aside from their beauty , why were marianne north ’ s paintings so useful to scientists back in europe ?	aside from their beauty , why were marianne north ’ s paintings so useful to scientists back in europe ?
so , why would anyone want to eat something that causes such high levels of pain ? nobody really knows when or why humans started eating hot peppers . archaeologists have found spices like mustard along with human artifacts dating as far back as 23,000 years ago .	what does your brain think when you ’ re eating a hot pepper ?	what does your brain think when you ’ re eating a hot pepper ?
if the anode is at a slightly higher positive potential , the electrons are attracted to it , completing the circuit . this unidirectional current flow could be controlled by varying the voltage to the cathode , which makes it release more or less electrons . the next stage was the triode , which uses a third electrode called the grid .	how is a triode made ? how could it control the flow of current through it ?	how is a triode made ? how could it control the flow of current through it ?
a model is a way scientists describe the properties of physical phenomena . first , gases always move in a straight line . we do n't really have anything to demonstrate this with because gravity always pulls objects down .	if gases have very high kinetic energy ( in other words , they move around very fast ) , how do you think liquid molecules behave ? what about solids ?	if gases have very high kinetic energy ( in other words , they move around very fast ) , how do you think liquid molecules behave ? what about solids ?
the heisenberg uncertainty principle is one of a handful of ideas from quantum physics to expand into general pop culture . it says that you can never simultaneously know the exact position and the exact speed of an object and shows up as a metaphor in everything from literary criticism to sports commentary .	the heisenberg uncertainty principle tells us that the structure of reality prevents us from knowing certain types of information at the same time . can you think of another example ( in physics or another field ) where it is impossible to know two sorts of information at the same time ? how does that case compare to the quantum situation described here ?	the heisenberg uncertainty principle tells us that the structure of reality prevents us from knowing certain types of information at the same time . can you think of another example ( in physics or another field ) where it is impossible to know two sorts of information at the same time ? how does that case compare to the quantum situation described here ?
in condensation reactions , a small molecule , such as water , is produced with each chain-extending reaction . the first synthetic polymers were created by accident as by-products of various chemical reactions . thinking they were useless , chemists mostly discarded them .	slime , gak and oobleck are a few slimey favorites . do you remember the first time you played with slime ? can you explain the difference between a newtonian fluid versus a non newtonian fluid ?	slime , gak and oobleck are a few slimey favorites . do you remember the first time you played with slime ? can you explain the difference between a newtonian fluid versus a non newtonian fluid ?
eventually , the popularity of paper spread throughout europe , replacing parchment for most printings because it was less expensive in bulk . inks had been made by combining organic plant and animal dyes with water or wine , but since water does n't stick to metal type , use of the printing press required a change to oil-based ink . printers used black ink made of a mixture of lamp soot , turpentine , and walnut oil .	once the printing press existed , would water-based ink work in the printing process ?	once the printing press existed , would water-based ink work in the printing process ?
over several years , they weed out all the bad apples , selecting only those whose fruits are the best . these exclusive plants officially form the cultivar , or new apple variety . to ensure an exact copy of this cultivar , all apple trees must be grafted from the original seedling .	what is a cultivar ?	what is a cultivar ?
over several years , they weed out all the bad apples , selecting only those whose fruits are the best . these exclusive plants officially form the cultivar , or new apple variety . to ensure an exact copy of this cultivar , all apple trees must be grafted from the original seedling .	what is the purpose of creating new apple varieties ?	what is the purpose of creating new apple varieties ?
a square manhole cover 's short edge could line up with the wider part of the hole and fall right in . but a curve of constant width wo n't fall in any orientation . usually they 're circular , but keep your eyes open , and you just might come across a reuleaux triangle manhole .	which of the following is a curve of constant width ?	which of the following is a curve of constant width ?
a square manhole cover 's short edge could line up with the wider part of the hole and fall right in . but a curve of constant width wo n't fall in any orientation . usually they 're circular , but keep your eyes open , and you just might come across a reuleaux triangle manhole .	which of the following processes generates a new curve of constant width ?	which of the following processes generates a new curve of constant width ?
did you know that a single tree can be literally linked up to hundreds of other trees as far as the eye can see ? and as you 're walking through the forest , what you see , the trees , the roots , the mushrooms , are just the tip of the iceberg . under a single footstep , there are 300 miles of fungal cells stacked end on end moving stuff around .	when you walk through the forest , what you see is just the tip of the iceberg . why is understanding this important for dealing with global warming ?	when you walk through the forest , what you see is just the tip of the iceberg . why is understanding this important for dealing with global warming ?
they 're not as strong as the interactions between charged particles , but if you have enough of them , they can really add up . that 's the gecko 's secret . gecko toes are padded with flexible ridges . those ridges are covered in tiny hair-like structures , much thinner than human hair , called setae .	a gecko can disengage its stickiness by _____	a gecko can disengage its stickiness by _____
a theory 's acceptance , however , is often gladiatorial . multiple theories may compete to supply the best explanation of a new scientific discovery . upon further research , scientists tend to favor the theory that can explain most of the data , though there may still be gaps in our understanding . scientists also like when a new theory successfully predicts previously unobserved phenomena , like when dmitri mendeleev 's theory about the periodic table predicted several undiscovered elements . the term scientific theory covers a broad swath .	new data is found which goes against what scientists predicted should happen . which of the following is not a potential result of the new research ?	new data is found which goes against what scientists predicted should happen . which of the following is not a potential result of the new research ?
well , it actually seems like /multiple/ presentation formats , especially if one of them is visual , help most people learn . when psychologists and educators test for learning styles , they ’ re trying to figure out whether these are inherent traits that affect how well students learn , instead of just a preference . usually , they start by giving a survey to figure out what style a student favors , like visual or verbal learning .	what is the distinction researchers test for when trying to assess learning styles ?	what is the distinction researchers test for when trying to assess learning styles ?
protest can generate lasting positive change when it 's followed by an equally passionate effort to mobilize voters , to cast ballots , to understand government , and to make it more inclusive . so here are three core strategies for peacefully turning awareness into action and protest into durable political power . first , expand the frame of the possible , second , choose a defining fight , and third , find an early win .	which of these is not an example of successfully moving from protest to power ?	which of these is not an example of successfully moving from protest to power ?
if you live on the east coast of the united states , you 've spent the last 17 years of your life walking , eating and sleeping above a dormant army of insects . these are the cicadas . every 17 years , billions of them emerge from the ground to do three things : molt , mate and die . there are 15 different broods of cicadas out there , grouped by when they 'll emerge from the ground . some of these broods are on a 13-year cycle , others are on a 17-year clock .	how often do cicadas emerge from the ground ?	how often do cicadas emerge from the ground ?
the members of this group were prominent figures in modernism , a cultural movement that sought to push the boundaries of how reality is represented . key features of modernist writing include the use of stream of consciousness , interior monologue , distortions in time , and multiple or shifting perspectives . these appear in the work of ezra pound , gertrude stein , james joyce , and woolf herself .	which of the following is not a feature of modernist literature :	which of the following is not a feature of modernist literature :
the earliest records tell us the beans were ground and mixed with cornmeal and chili peppers to create a drink - not a relaxing cup of hot cocoa , but a bitter , invigorating concoction frothing with foam . and if you thought we make a big deal about chocolate today , the mesoamericans had us beat . they believed that cacao was a heavenly food gifted to humans by a feathered serpent god , known to the maya as kukulkan and to the aztecs as quetzalcoatl .	cocoa has been consumed as a medicine for hundreds of years and is now thought to be heart healthy . why is that so ? ( hint : search the web for chocolate and medicine to read about the vasodilation of arteries )	cocoa has been consumed as a medicine for hundreds of years and is now thought to be heart healthy . why is that so ? ( hint : search the web for chocolate and medicine to read about the vasodilation of arteries )
this process , called long term potentiation , is considered to be a mechanism by which memories are stored long-term , but how do some memories get lost ? age is one factor . as we get older , synapses begin to falter and weaken , affecting how easily we can retrieve memories .	name some of the common memory thieves we can experience . describe the underlying mechanism for one .	name some of the common memory thieves we can experience . describe the underlying mechanism for one .
cosmologists look at what 's out there in space and piece together the tale of how our universe evolved : what it 's doing now , what it 's going to be doing , and how it all began in the first place . it was edwin hubble who first noticed that our universe is expanding , by noting that galaxies seem to be flying further and further apart . this implied that everything should have started with the monumental explosion of an infinitely hot , infinitely small point .	how did we first work out that the universe was expanding ?	how did we first work out that the universe was expanding ?
can you imagine what might happen to the story if the butcher 's guild put on the crucifixion of christ ? yes , without the clergy , the plays soon started changing from their true bible stories . by the end of the 14th century , a new form of drama , called the morality play , had evolved .	why were the plays reenactments of bible stories ?	why were the plays reenactments of bible stories ?
well , yes . cortisol can increase your appetite . it tells your body to replenish your energy stores with energy dense foods and carbs , causing you to crave comfort foods .	what are the main ways excess cortisol can harm your body ?	what are the main ways excess cortisol can harm your body ?
well , time travel is possible , and what 's more , it 's already been done . meet sergei krikalev , the greatest time traveler in human history . this russian cosmonaut holds the record for the most amount of time spent orbiting our planet , a total of 803 days , 9 hours , and 39 minutes .	how many seconds did sergei krikalev time travel into his own future ?	how many seconds did sergei krikalev time travel into his own future ?
the philippine manananggal would sever her upper torso and sprout huge , bat-like wings to fly . the malaysian penanggalan was a flying female head with dangling entrails . ( laughter ) and the australian yara-ma-yha-who was a little red guy with a big head , a large mouth , and bloodsuckers on his hands and feet .	the malaysian __________ was a flying female head with dangling entrails .	the malaysian __________ was a flying female head with dangling entrails .
in 1996 , 56 volunteers took part in a study to test a new painkiller called trivaricaine . on each subject , one index finger was covered in the new painkiller while the other remained untouched .	trivaricaine was a real , effective painkiller .	trivaricaine was a real , effective painkiller .
only that 's not how it is at all . if you are in outer space , you are orbiting the earth : it 's called free fall . you 're actually falling towards the earth .	if an astronaut orbiting the earth lets go of a rock , what will happen to the rock ? describe the path of the rock and why it follows that path .	if an astronaut orbiting the earth lets go of a rock , what will happen to the rock ? describe the path of the rock and why it follows that path .
only that 's not how it is at all . if you are in outer space , you are orbiting the earth : it 's called free fall . you 're actually falling towards the earth .	gravity actually determines how most of the universe moves about . describe how our ideas of free fall can be related to the orbits of the planets in our solar system . extra credit for explaining why jupiter ( the heaviest planet ) will likely end up causing mercury to be booted out of the solar system .	gravity actually determines how most of the universe moves about . describe how our ideas of free fall can be related to the orbits of the planets in our solar system . extra credit for explaining why jupiter ( the heaviest planet ) will likely end up causing mercury to be booted out of the solar system .
meanwhile , florida teen jennifer mee may hold the record for the most frequent hiccups , 50 times per minute for more than four weeks in 2007 . so what causes hiccups ? doctors point out that a round of hiccups often follows from stimuli that stretch the stomach , like swallowing air or too rapid eating or drinking .	hiccups are most common in :	hiccups are most common in :
sodium bicarbonate neutralizes the stomach 's natural acidity , so these digestive enzymes can perform their jobs . lipase breaks down fatty substances , protease splits up proteins , and amylase divides carbohydrates to create energy-rich sugars . most of those nutrients then get absorbed into the blood stream , and go on to enrich the body .	lipase is responsible for breaking down _____	lipase is responsible for breaking down _____
i 'm anna rothschild , and this is `` gross science . '' so it turns out that doctors have known since the time of hippocrates that different diseases smell different ways . for example , typhoid -- which causes fever , abdominal pain , delirium , and can kill you -- smells like freshly baked brown bread .	since during the time of which great greek physician have doctors noticed that certain diseases smell different ways ?	since during the time of which great greek physician have doctors noticed that certain diseases smell different ways ?
it was a night like any other night , except here i was climbing the platonic peaks like romeo on a second date . ( ugh ) i was there for the dame .	which of these is most like a fractal ?	which of these is most like a fractal ?
so what 's to account for that difference and how did our skin come to take on so many different hues to begin with ? whatever the color , our skin tells an epic tale of human intrepidness and adaptability , revealing its variance to be a function of biology . it all centers around melanin , the pigment that gives skin and hair its color . this ingredient comes from skin cells called melanocytes and takes two basic forms . there 's eumelanin , which gives rise to a range of brown skin tones , as well as black , brown , and blond hair , and pheomelanin , which causes the reddish browns of freckles and red hair .	variation in skin color is a function of :	variation in skin color is a function of :
i am sure you have heard it before . it is the parable of the good samaritan . when jesus was asked : `` who is my neighbor ? ''	briefly describe the parable of the good samaritan .	briefly describe the parable of the good samaritan .
recognition algorithms are n't just limited to facial expressions . our emotions manifest in many ways . there 's body language and vocal tone , changes in heart rate , complexion , and skin temperature , or even word frequency and sentence structure in our writing .	machines identifying emotions : this can be dangerous because :	machines identifying emotions : this can be dangerous because :
a phenomenon known as the strong nuclear force struggles to overcome this repulsion and keep the nucleus intact . however , some combinations of protons and neutrons , known as isotopes , remain unstable , or radioactive . they will randomly eject matter and/or energy , known as nuclear radiation , to achieve greater stability .	there are two isotopes of the same element in front of you . what is the difference between them ?	there are two isotopes of the same element in front of you . what is the difference between them ?
and so to meet the massive demand for labor , the europeans looked to africa . african slavery had existed for centuries in various forms . some slaves were indentured servants , with a limited term and the chance to buy one 's freedom .	the concept of slavery was not new to africa or europe . both had versions of it throughout their history . how were the atlantic slave trade and american slavery different than previous versions of slavery on other continents ?	the concept of slavery was not new to africa or europe . both had versions of it throughout their history . how were the atlantic slave trade and american slavery different than previous versions of slavery on other continents ?
but perhaps qin shi huangdi dedicated so much effort to securing his historical legacy because he was obsessed with his mortality . he spent his last years desperately employing alchemists and deploying expeditions in search of elixirs of life that would help him achieve immortality . and as early as the first year of his reign , he began the construction of a massive underground necropolis filled with monuments , artifacts , and an army to accompany him into the next world and continue his rule .	why would some emperors wish to have “ company ” in the afterlife ? what might that reveal about their beliefs about life and the world ?	why would some emperors wish to have “ company ” in the afterlife ? what might that reveal about their beliefs about life and the world ?
here 's some analogies that might help you understand . for example , let 's imagine the entire history of earth until the present day as a single calendar year . on january 1st , the earth begins to form .	geologically speaking with reference to the entire history of the earth , the dinosaurs went extinct…	geologically speaking with reference to the entire history of the earth , the dinosaurs went extinct…
take a moment to think about the us constitution . what 's the first thing that comes to mind ?	how does the logic of the anti-federalist opposition to the constitution assist in securing a bill of rights to the constitution ?	how does the logic of the anti-federalist opposition to the constitution assist in securing a bill of rights to the constitution ?
if that does n't impress you , remember the photon is fastest thing in the universe , it goes about 186,000 miles per second . so how do these subatomic particle accelerators work ? well , they use electric fields .	particle accelerators are used to give subatomic particles tremendous velocities . how is this connected to the study of incredibly hot collisions ?	particle accelerators are used to give subatomic particles tremendous velocities . how is this connected to the study of incredibly hot collisions ?
your hands - and our molecules - possess a spatial property in common called chirality , or handedness . chirality means exactly what we 've just described : a chiral object is not the same as its mirror image . chiral objects are very special in both chemistry and everyday life . screws , for example , are also chiral .	try finding some objects around your home or office and holding them up to a mirror . are these objects chiral ? how can you tell ? how might we be able to determine if a molecule is chiral , especially when holding it up to a mirror is inconvenient ?	try finding some objects around your home or office and holding them up to a mirror . are these objects chiral ? how can you tell ? how might we be able to determine if a molecule is chiral , especially when holding it up to a mirror is inconvenient ?
finally , a graph ca n't tell you much if you do n't know the full significance of what 's being presented . both of the following graphs use the same ocean temperature data from the national centers for environmental information . so why do they seem to give opposite impressions ?	why might a person trying to persuade you toward their point of view use a graph to present information ?	why might a person trying to persuade you toward their point of view use a graph to present information ?
he also spent the majority of his life fighting for the immediate abolition of slavery . he used his voice , pen , and good deed to fight slavery . beriah green was fiercely devoted to abolition before it was popular because he believed it was the right thing to do .	you just heard about many history figures that were able to accomplish great deeds because of their `` virtues . '' describe a historical figure not mentioned in the video who you feel possessed a positive virtue and explain how that virtue helped him/her accomplish a `` good deed . ''	you just heard about many history figures that were able to accomplish great deeds because of their `` virtues . '' describe a historical figure not mentioned in the video who you feel possessed a positive virtue and explain how that virtue helped him/her accomplish a `` good deed . ''
that 's what we like to see ... haha have this one handy as well ... . so zinc again is an abundant metal but it 's a metal that we all need for life , it 's part of enzymes and it 's part of of many many biologically mediated processes .	what are the oxidation states of zn ?	what are the oxidation states of zn ?
instead , one ought to live in moderation . the buddha called this the middle way this allows for maximal concentration on cultivating compassion for others and seeking enlightenment next , the buddha described a path to transcending suffering called the four noble truths the first noble truth is the realisation that first prompted the buddha ’ s journey : that there is suffering and constant dissatisfaction in the world . the second is that this suffering is caused by our desires .	what is the middle way ?	what is the middle way ?
soon , we are tapping to the beat , singing the words , even downloading the track . this mere-exposure effect does n't just work for songs . it also works for everything from shapes to super bowl ads .	the mere exposure effect captures the intution that	the mere exposure effect captures the intution that
but a study in frontiers in psychology looking at memory retention of lectures , and fidgeting… found almost the same as galton in 1885 . if you track the number of fidgets per minute , it 's a good indicator of audience boredom . fidgeting seems to be a representation of our animal brains working hard to keep on task and learning .	if fidgeting happens at least once per minute , how many times does someone fidget in a 75 minute class ?	if fidgeting happens at least once per minute , how many times does someone fidget in a 75 minute class ?
for our direction to be a dimension , it has to be at right angles to all other dimensions . so , a one-dimensional space is just a line . a two-dimensional space is defined by two perpendicular lines , which describe a flat plane like a piece of paper .	which of these objects is most like a 2 dimensional space ?	which of these objects is most like a 2 dimensional space ?
they 're basically retaining their juvenile characteristics very late in what we call ontogeny . so allometric cranial ontogeny is relative skull growth . so you can see that if you actually found one that was 80 percent grown and you did n't know that it was going to grow up to a cassowary , you would think they were two different animals .	allometric cranial ontogeny is :	allometric cranial ontogeny is :
there 's eumelanin , which gives rise to a range of brown skin tones , as well as black , brown , and blond hair , and pheomelanin , which causes the reddish browns of freckles and red hair . but humans were n't always like this . our varying skin tones were formed by an evolutionary process driven by the sun .	have humans always had the variation in skin color that we see today ? explain your answer .	have humans always had the variation in skin color that we see today ? explain your answer .
and though the proportions of different blood types vary between human populations , scientists are n't sure why they evolved ; perhaps as protection against blood born diseases , or due to random genetic drift . finally , different species have different sets of antigens . in fact , the four main blood types shared by us apes seem paltry in comparison to the thirteen types found in dogs .	what are antigens ?	what are antigens ?
here 's why . there are two types of supernova . type 1 is when a star accumulates so much matter from a neighboring star , that a runaway nuclear reaction ignites and causes it to explode .	a supernova is defined as _____ .	a supernova is defined as _____ .
here 's why . there are two types of supernova . type 1 is when a star accumulates so much matter from a neighboring star , that a runaway nuclear reaction ignites and causes it to explode .	when was the last observable supernova ?	when was the last observable supernova ?
in a similar way to how a jet that exceeds the speed of sound produces a sonic boom , these superluminal charged particles leave behind a cone of blue light , kind of a photonic boom . this light spreads through icecube , hitting some of its detectors located over a mile beneath the surface . photomultiplier tubes amplify the signal , which contains information about the charged particles ' paths and energies .	how many individual sensors or detectors does icecube have ?	how many individual sensors or detectors does icecube have ?
paintings , sculpture , textiles and illuminations were the media of their time , supplying vivid imagery to accompany the stories of the day . in this sense , western art shared a utilitarian purpose with other cultures around the world , some of whose languages incidentally have no word for art . so how do we define what we call art ?	what is your favorite work of art ( or who is your favorite artist ) ? why ?	what is your favorite work of art ( or who is your favorite artist ) ? why ?
unlike the rhinovirus , it does n't need us to be up and about , and may even benefit from harming us since a sick and immobile person is easier for mosquitoes to bite . we would expect germs that depend less on host mobility , like those transmitted by insects , water or food , to cause more severe symptoms . so , what can we do to reduce the harmfulness of infectious diseases ?	germs that depends less on host mobility :	germs that depends less on host mobility :
if you think of culture as an iceberg , only a small fraction of it is visible . food , flags , and festivals , which are often talked about in schools , are the visible parts that we rightly celebrate .	tell about an experience you have had with a different culture . if you 've never had an experience with another culture , what do you imagine it will feel like ? maybe you 've seen a movie where the characters experienced cultural differences . why do you think greetings of peace are important in these instances ? how accepting do you think your culture is to other people ?	tell about an experience you have had with a different culture . if you 've never had an experience with another culture , what do you imagine it will feel like ? maybe you 've seen a movie where the characters experienced cultural differences . why do you think greetings of peace are important in these instances ? how accepting do you think your culture is to other people ?
we can turn them so that one looks at the other as in a mirror . your hands - and our molecules - possess a spatial property in common called chirality , or handedness . chirality means exactly what we 've just described : a chiral object is not the same as its mirror image .	mirror-image objects that are not identical ( like your hands ) are called enantiomers . would you predict that the physical properties of enantiomeric molecules are different ? why or why not ?	mirror-image objects that are not identical ( like your hands ) are called enantiomers . would you predict that the physical properties of enantiomeric molecules are different ? why or why not ?
we can turn them so that one looks at the other as in a mirror . your hands - and our molecules - possess a spatial property in common called chirality , or handedness . chirality means exactly what we 've just described : a chiral object is not the same as its mirror image .	chirality is a property that concerns the relationship between a molecule and its :	chirality is a property that concerns the relationship between a molecule and its :
by-and-large it ’ s not true . however , actinium is one of them which might do that because the element itself glows blue in the dark . and actinium is actually more dangerous than plutonium , and plutonium was once described as the most deadly and toxic substance known to man .	actinium glows in the dark , but with which color ?	actinium glows in the dark , but with which color ?
so , we run on a treadmill that you strap yourself down to and you run on the treadmill to actually give loads into your bones to keep them from atrophying and losing bone density or calcium . for some people in space , your intracranial pressure changes with pushes on your eyeball and that changes its shape , therefore requiring you to wear glasses in space , so it effects your vision . so , we keep different prescriptions of glasses on board just in case someone 's vision changes .	2. what physiological changes occur to the heart in space ?	2. what physiological changes occur to the heart in space ?
so , we run on a treadmill that you strap yourself down to and you run on the treadmill to actually give loads into your bones to keep them from atrophying and losing bone density or calcium . for some people in space , your intracranial pressure changes with pushes on your eyeball and that changes its shape , therefore requiring you to wear glasses in space , so it effects your vision . so , we keep different prescriptions of glasses on board just in case someone 's vision changes .	5. some people have to wear glasses while in space , but not on earth . why ?	5. some people have to wear glasses while in space , but not on earth . why ?
inventors always attract armies of naysayers who can never remember how critical they were . for our part , we should remember malcolm mclean . his first container ship , the ideal x , sailed from shed 154 at marsh street , port newark with 58 well-filled boxes .	what did mclean want to ship overseas ?	what did mclean want to ship overseas ?
inventors always attract armies of naysayers who can never remember how critical they were . for our part , we should remember malcolm mclean . his first container ship , the ideal x , sailed from shed 154 at marsh street , port newark with 58 well-filled boxes .	who was malcolm mclean ?	who was malcolm mclean ?
in the next couple of decades , as we explore mars and europa and titan , the discovery of any kind of life there will mean that life will be abundant in the milky way . because if life originated twice within this one solar system , it means it was easy , and given similar conditions elsewhere , life will happen . so the number two is a very important number here .	take a moment to let your imagination go and think about the possibilities of technologically advanced alien life . what do you think that civilization would like and why ? do you think they would be at all similar to us ?	take a moment to let your imagination go and think about the possibilities of technologically advanced alien life . what do you think that civilization would like and why ? do you think they would be at all similar to us ?
however , you no longer have a socially optimal solution , since customers at either end of the beach have to walk further than necessary to get a sweet treat . think about all the fast food chains , clothing boutiques , or mobile phone kiosks at the mall . customers may be better served by distributing services throughout a community , but this leaves businesses vulnerable to aggressive competition . in the real world , customers come from more than one direction , and businesses are free to compete with marketing strategies , by differentiating their product line , and with price cuts , but at the heart of their strategy , companies like to keep their competition as close as possible .	think about your own community . draw a map that indicates each retail location and its type . are similar types together ? are there any outliers ? what are the most popular spots and are they surrounded by similar businesses ?	think about your own community . draw a map that indicates each retail location and its type . are similar types together ? are there any outliers ? what are the most popular spots and are they surrounded by similar businesses ?
but with such a simple nervous system , it 's unlikely to experience the conscious part of pain . other invertebrate animals are more complicated , though , like the octopus , which has a sophisticated brain and is thought to be one of the most intelligent invertebrate animals . yet , in many countries , people continue the practice of eating live octopus .	the ______ is thought to be one of the most intelligent and sophisticated invertebrates .	the ______ is thought to be one of the most intelligent and sophisticated invertebrates .
a cataract occurs when proteins in the lens lose their normal arrangement , clumping together in a way that causes discoloration or clouding , and eventually blocks most vision . cataracts can be caused by eye injury , certain medications , ultraviolet radiation , diabetes , smoking , or some genetic disorders . but the most common cause is aging . in the united states , more than 50 % of people over the age of 80 develop them .	the most common risk factor for developing cataracts is :	the most common risk factor for developing cataracts is :
records , cassettes , cds , or streamed audio files . have these technologies bread some kind of unique , contemporary experience , and are earworms just a product of the late 20th century ? the answer comes from an unlikely source : mark twain .	were you surprised at how prevalent earworms are ? do you think you experience more or fewer earworms than the typical person ? when do you tend to experience earworms ?	were you surprised at how prevalent earworms are ? do you think you experience more or fewer earworms than the typical person ? when do you tend to experience earworms ?
`` well , not exactly . we found a boson , probably the higgs boson . '' `` what 's that ? ''	what is the higgs boson ?	what is the higgs boson ?
`` well , not exactly . we found a boson , probably the higgs boson . '' `` what 's that ? ''	has the standard model higgs boson been discovered ?	has the standard model higgs boson been discovered ?
`` well , not exactly . we found a boson , probably the higgs boson . '' `` what 's that ? ''	if the thing that atlas and cms have discovered turns out not to be the higgs boson predicted by the standard model , what could be the consequences ? what might it be signs of ?	if the thing that atlas and cms have discovered turns out not to be the higgs boson predicted by the standard model , what could be the consequences ? what might it be signs of ?
this year probably two-thirds to half of our farm has not been put into cultivation because of lack of water . without food production , there 's no jobs out in the rural communities . when you have the commodity we tend to not plan for the future .	in the film , the farmer said , `` without food production , there 's no jobs out in the rural communities . '' food production provides jobs for residents of stratford and surrounding areas , such as seasonal workers who harvest crops , people who repair farm equipment , and grocers and restaurant owners who provide food for local workers . what do you think might happen to these people and professions if the drought continues ?	in the film , the farmer said , `` without food production , there 's no jobs out in the rural communities . '' food production provides jobs for residents of stratford and surrounding areas , such as seasonal workers who harvest crops , people who repair farm equipment , and grocers and restaurant owners who provide food for local workers . what do you think might happen to these people and professions if the drought continues ?
in order for the cross-sensory experiences to occur , the higher level ideas and concepts that our minds associate with the sensory input must be activated . for example , this shape can be seen as either the letter `` s '' or the number `` 5 , '' and synesthetes associate each with different colors or sounds based on how they interpret it despite the purely visual stimulus remaining identical . in another study , synesthetes created novel color associations for unfamiliar letters after learning what the letters were . so because it relies on a connection between ideas and senses , this mental phenomenon underlying synesthesia is known as ideasthesia .	a synesthete that associates colors to graphemes will associate a particular color to the symbol depending on :	a synesthete that associates colors to graphemes will associate a particular color to the symbol depending on :
besides , mendeleev was far from the first person to do that . is it because mendeleev arranged elements with similar properties together ? not really , that had already been done too .	how do you think mendeleev was able to so accurately estimate the properties of undiscovered elements ?	how do you think mendeleev was able to so accurately estimate the properties of undiscovered elements ?
they might invest it into a legal business claiming payment by producing fake invoices , or even start a bogus charity , placing themselves on the board of directors with an exorbitant salary . money laundering itself was n't officially recognized as a federal crime in the united states until 1986 . before that point , the government needed to prosecute a related crime , like tax evasion .	what act , pertaining to money laundering , was significant in the year 1986 ?	what act , pertaining to money laundering , was significant in the year 1986 ?
but with the advent of the agricultural revolution 10,000 years ago , and the arrival of permanent settlements in the middle east , people began living side-by-side with animals , facilitating the spread of bacteria and viruses between cattle and humans . epidemics and pandemics come in many shapes and forms . in 2010 , for instance , a devastating earthquake struck haiti , forcing thousands of people into temporary refugee camps .	why are epidemics and pandemics a relatively recent phenomenon in human history ?	why are epidemics and pandemics a relatively recent phenomenon in human history ?
the main difference depends on the curvature of the surface upon which the lines are constructed . turns out euclid did not tell us the entire story in `` elements , '' and merely described one possible way to look at the universe . it all depends on the context of what you 're looking at .	if you wanted to lead future generations to take a deep look into the nature of the universe to discover things that you suspected were worthy of discovering , what kinds of things would you do to `` covertly '' help guide them to that end ?	if you wanted to lead future generations to take a deep look into the nature of the universe to discover things that you suspected were worthy of discovering , what kinds of things would you do to `` covertly '' help guide them to that end ?
even though they still look the same , these chemical differences are eventually translated into asymmetric organs . asymmetry shows up in the heart first . it begins as a straight tube along the center of the embryo , but when the embryo is around three weeks old , the tube starts to bend into a c-shape and rotate towards the right side of the body .	which organ is first observed for its left right asymmetry during embryonic development ?	which organ is first observed for its left right asymmetry during embryonic development ?
i do n't have to count , i only need to see that i can match them up , one to one . in fact , we think that some ancient people who spoke languages that did n't have words for numbers greater than three used this sort of magic . for instance , if you let your sheep out of a pen to graze , you can keep track of how many went out by setting aside a stone for each one , and putting those stones back one by one when the sheep return , so you know if any are missing without really counting .	some ancient languages did n't have words for numbers greater than three . what did the people who spoke those languages do when they needed to count their livestock ?	some ancient languages did n't have words for numbers greater than three . what did the people who spoke those languages do when they needed to count their livestock ?
different sections of the cerebral cortex process different tastes : bitter , salty , umami , and , in our case , sweet . from here , the signal activates the brain 's reward system . this reward system is a series of electrical and chemical pathways across several different regions of the brain .	sugar ___________ the brain ’ s reward system .	sugar ___________ the brain ’ s reward system .
different sections of the cerebral cortex process different tastes : bitter , salty , umami , and , in our case , sweet . from here , the signal activates the brain 's reward system . this reward system is a series of electrical and chemical pathways across several different regions of the brain .	sugar consumption causes distinct changes to the brain ’ s reward system . what other stimuli activate this system and what are similar behaviors seen between them and sugar overconsumption ?	sugar consumption causes distinct changes to the brain ’ s reward system . what other stimuli activate this system and what are similar behaviors seen between them and sugar overconsumption ?
( music ) you can hear in the back , a new song is mixing in . ( music ) now , another thing that djs use is what 's called a mixer , and a mixer has many different effects , such as a beat roll , filter effects , and any other different ones . there 's plenty of effects to use .	list at least one of the effects a dj is able to achieve by using a mixer .	list at least one of the effects a dj is able to achieve by using a mixer .
not only do they tell us what kind of organism left them , they might also tell us something about when that organism was there , but also what kind of behavior , were they running or were they walking ? and so terrestrial organisms , like my cute dog kieran , might be leaving footprints behind in dirt or in sand , but marine organisms leave footprints in the form of what we call wake structures , or hydrodynamic signatures , in fluid . now imagine , it 's really hard to see these kinds of structures because fluid is transparent .	all organisms create footprints in air or water ( a.k.a . fluid ) that are called hydrodynamic signatures .	all organisms create footprints in air or water ( a.k.a . fluid ) that are called hydrodynamic signatures .
most mammal mothers can expel or reabsorb embryos if required , but in humans , once the fetus is connected to the blood supply , severing that connection can result in hemorrhage . if the fetus develops poorly or dies , the mother 's health is endangered . as it grows , a fetus 's ongoing need for resources can cause intense fatigue , high blood pressure , and conditions like diabetes and preeclampsia . because of these risks , pregnancy is always a huge , and sometimes dangerous , investment .	as the fetus in the human mother grows , its intense need for nutrients can cause :	as the fetus in the human mother grows , its intense need for nutrients can cause :
that 's 9 billion cycles per second . that 's a really fast clock . no matter how skilled a clockmaker may be , every pendulum , wind-up mechanism and quartz crystal resonates at a slightly different frequency .	how can we count the fast ticking of an atomic clock ?	how can we count the fast ticking of an atomic clock ?
the distinctive look of the gondola developed over many centuries . each gondola was constructed in a family boatyard called a squero . > from their fathers and grandfathers , sons learned how to select and season pieces of beech , cherry , elm , fir , larch , lime , mahogany , oak and walnut .	historically , each gondola was constructed in a family boatyard called a :	historically , each gondola was constructed in a family boatyard called a :
no elements like carbon , oxygen or nitrogen existed . no iron , silver or gold . in some places , the density of this gas was slightly higher than in others .	gold atoms are created ________ .	gold atoms are created ________ .
so you find , not surprisingly , the police saying , `` we 're going to look a lot smarter if we stay away from the science side of the story . '' but , in 1918 new york city appointed the first trained medical examiner it ever had . that 's the gentleman sitting down there .	in what year did new york city appoint its first trained medical examiner ?	in what year did new york city appoint its first trained medical examiner ?
where the two types of silicon meet , electrons can wander across the p/n junction , leaving a positive charge on one side and creating negative charge on the other . you can think of light as the flow of tiny particles called photons , shooting out from the sun . when one of these photons strikes the silicon cell with enough energy , it can knock an electron from its bond , leaving a hole .	what is light ?	what is light ?
to a guinness book title , apparently . by the middle ages , people all over europe were swapping spit , and by the 19th century we actually gave the study of kissing the decidedly un-sexy title of philematology . rrrr .	what is the study of kissing called ?	what is the study of kissing called ?
measuring one will tell you the other with absolute certainty . but this entanglement seems to defy einstein 's famous theory of relativity because there is nothing to limit the distance between particles . if you measure one in new york at noon , and the other in san francisco a nanosecond later , they still give exactly the same result .	the phenomenon of quantum entanglement seems to defy einstein ’ s theory of relativity because :	the phenomenon of quantum entanglement seems to defy einstein ’ s theory of relativity because :
michael here . the earth is spinning and we are spinning along with it . but what if the earth suddenly stopped spinning ? well , first of all , you would gain weight .	how fast is the earth spinning at the equator ?	how fast is the earth spinning at the equator ?
all eyes , whether nocturnal or not , depend on photoreceptors in the retina to detect light particles , known as photons . photoreceptors then report information about these photons to other cells in the retina and brain . the brain sifts through that information and uses it to build up an image of the environment the eye perceives .	what effects does the grouping of information from neighboring photoreceptors in the brain of hawkmoths have ?	what effects does the grouping of information from neighboring photoreceptors in the brain of hawkmoths have ?
you check the shipping notes , but all you learn is that each tank had the same number of fish inside . the cargo hold had space for anywhere from 1 to 13 total tanks . and finally , the old captain tells you that this area has the odd property that no two sectors can have the same number of sharks , but every sector will have at least one , and no more than seven .	which best describes the number of tanks that can fit in the cargo hold ?	which best describes the number of tanks that can fit in the cargo hold ?
d1 : hmm . you know , it sounds kind of like expressive aphasia , or broca 's aphasia , which makes producing words difficult . this is caused by damage to the inferior frontal gyrus , or possibly the anterior insula , both regions behind your temple on the left side of your head .	which of the following scenarios best describes what might happen if you tried to verbally ask someone with fluent aphasia how they are doing ?	which of the following scenarios best describes what might happen if you tried to verbally ask someone with fluent aphasia how they are doing ?
the tallest captive sees three black hats in front of him , so he says `` black , '' telling everyone else he sees an odd number of black hats . he gets his own hat color wrong , but that 's okay since you 're collectively allowed to have one wrong answer . prisoner two also sees an odd number of black hats , so she knows hers is white , and answers correctly .	how many wrong guesses is the group allowed to have ?	how many wrong guesses is the group allowed to have ?
you will not find the answer in the declaration of independence , nor will you find it in the constitution . it is just a stupid law from 1845 . ( laughter ) in 1845 , americans traveled by horse and buggy . as did i , evidently .	in 1845 , how did americans travel ?	in 1845 , how did americans travel ?
the now-famous double helix is almost synonymous with watson and crick , two of the scientists who won the nobel prize for figuring it out . but there 's another name you may know , too , rosalind franklin . you may have heard that her data supported watson and crick 's brilliant idea , or that she was a plain-dressing , belligerent scientist , which is how watson actually described her in `` the double helix . ''	rosalind franklin ’ s contributions to science were exclusively in the field of biology . true or false ?	rosalind franklin ’ s contributions to science were exclusively in the field of biology . true or false ?
the now-famous double helix is almost synonymous with watson and crick , two of the scientists who won the nobel prize for figuring it out . but there 's another name you may know , too , rosalind franklin . you may have heard that her data supported watson and crick 's brilliant idea , or that she was a plain-dressing , belligerent scientist , which is how watson actually described her in `` the double helix . ''	what was franklin ’ s profession ?	what was franklin ’ s profession ?
the now-famous double helix is almost synonymous with watson and crick , two of the scientists who won the nobel prize for figuring it out . but there 's another name you may know , too , rosalind franklin . you may have heard that her data supported watson and crick 's brilliant idea , or that she was a plain-dressing , belligerent scientist , which is how watson actually described her in `` the double helix . ''	rosalind franklin is an example of how hard it is for women to be accepted in the scientific community . can you name other women who made important discoveries in science ? what did they do ?	rosalind franklin is an example of how hard it is for women to be accepted in the scientific community . can you name other women who made important discoveries in science ? what did they do ?
in leukemia , some of the cells inside your bone marrow grow uncontrollably , crowding out the healthy stem cells that form your blood cells . some leukemia patients can receive a stem cell transplant . these new stem cells will create the blood cells needed by the patient 's body .	a stem cell is…	a stem cell is…
in leukemia , some of the cells inside your bone marrow grow uncontrollably , crowding out the healthy stem cells that form your blood cells . some leukemia patients can receive a stem cell transplant . these new stem cells will create the blood cells needed by the patient 's body .	an undifferentiated cell is…	an undifferentiated cell is…
for instance , fossil records suggest bees may have evolved from wasps that gave up hunting after they acquired a taste for nectar . plant pollinator networks are everywhere . ecologists record these networks in the field by observing which pollinators visit which plants , or by analyzing the identity of pollen loads on their bodies .	which are the factors producing variability in plant-pollinator networks , in other words , why these networks are so dynamic ?	which are the factors producing variability in plant-pollinator networks , in other words , why these networks are so dynamic ?
for instance , fossil records suggest bees may have evolved from wasps that gave up hunting after they acquired a taste for nectar . plant pollinator networks are everywhere . ecologists record these networks in the field by observing which pollinators visit which plants , or by analyzing the identity of pollen loads on their bodies .	plant-pollinator networks are everywhere . ecologists record these networks in the field by observing which pollinators visit which plants , or by analyzing ________ .	plant-pollinator networks are everywhere . ecologists record these networks in the field by observing which pollinators visit which plants , or by analyzing ________ .
for instance , fossil records suggest bees may have evolved from wasps that gave up hunting after they acquired a taste for nectar . plant pollinator networks are everywhere . ecologists record these networks in the field by observing which pollinators visit which plants , or by analyzing the identity of pollen loads on their bodies .	the main characteristic of the architecture of all plant-pollinator networks on earth is ________ .	the main characteristic of the architecture of all plant-pollinator networks on earth is ________ .
all of this integrated into the same medical adhesives that are used in the hospital . so when we reached this point , we had some other challenges , from both an engineering as well as a usability perspective , to make sure that we could make it used practically . in many digital health discussions , people believe in and embrace the idea that we can simply digitize the data , wirelessly transmit it , send it to the cloud , and in the cloud , we can extract meaningful information for interpretation .	what were some additional challenges that todd and his team faced from an engineering and a usability perspective ? how did they overcome them ?	what were some additional challenges that todd and his team faced from an engineering and a usability perspective ? how did they overcome them ?
and the reason why it 's so hot goes back to the previous slide . the extreme gravity of these systems is accelerating particles of gas to great speeds , and great speeds means great temperatures . so this is the main idea , but science is a rough draft .	why was dark energy such a great surprise to many astronomers and physicists ?	why was dark energy such a great surprise to many astronomers and physicists ?
this scientific inquiry brought forth technological advances and eventually , scientists were able to take a closer look at the electric fluid itself . in 1897 , j.j. thomson , working in cambridge , england , discovered that the electrical fluid is actually made up of small particles named by the physicist george stoney as `` electrons . '' and so we return to the ancient greek word for amber , where our story began .	in 1897 , j.j. thompson , working in cambridge , england , discovered that the electrical fluid described by franklin was actually made up of :	in 1897 , j.j. thompson , working in cambridge , england , discovered that the electrical fluid described by franklin was actually made up of :
but there 's another independent factor that can make reactions happen : entropy . entropy measures a chemical 's randomness . here 's an enormous pyramid of golf balls .	when a neat , ordered chemical is changed into a more disordered chemical , there is an increase in _____ .	when a neat , ordered chemical is changed into a more disordered chemical , there is an increase in _____ .
but when the day arrives , it turns out that he 's not , and you were supposed to bring three different people . as you and bob sit at the silent , clownless party , it occurs to you that the confusion could 've been avoided simply by using another comma after dj . this final comma in a list , placed directly before the main conjunction , such as and , or , or nor , is called the serial comma , or oxford comma . and it has long driven grammar nerds crazy because even major language institutions ca n't agree on whether it should be used .	which of the following are arguments against using the comma ?	which of the following are arguments against using the comma ?
but when the day arrives , it turns out that he 's not , and you were supposed to bring three different people . as you and bob sit at the silent , clownless party , it occurs to you that the confusion could 've been avoided simply by using another comma after dj . this final comma in a list , placed directly before the main conjunction , such as and , or , or nor , is called the serial comma , or oxford comma . and it has long driven grammar nerds crazy because even major language institutions ca n't agree on whether it should be used .	explain how the guidelines against using the oxford comma can cause confusion in the following sentence : “ i ate a sandwich , mom and dad . ”	explain how the guidelines against using the oxford comma can cause confusion in the following sentence : “ i ate a sandwich , mom and dad . ”
that difference made the ball curve towards the lower pressure zone . this phenomenon is called the magnus effect . this type of kick , often referred to as a banana kick , is attempted regularly , and it is one of the elements that makes the beautiful game beautiful .	who described first the magnus effect ?	who described first the magnus effect ?
that difference made the ball curve towards the lower pressure zone . this phenomenon is called the magnus effect . this type of kick , often referred to as a banana kick , is attempted regularly , and it is one of the elements that makes the beautiful game beautiful .	in which of these sports can one not observe the magnus effect ?	in which of these sports can one not observe the magnus effect ?
that difference made the ball curve towards the lower pressure zone . this phenomenon is called the magnus effect . this type of kick , often referred to as a banana kick , is attempted regularly , and it is one of the elements that makes the beautiful game beautiful .	does the movement of the boomerang also involve the magnus effect ? if so , why does it return ?	does the movement of the boomerang also involve the magnus effect ? if so , why does it return ?
so it 's more than ununquadium , is it more ? it 's more than ununquadium , where we had , only one atom , but it 's still not very many atoms . it 's still arguable whether it will be a gass-like radon , or it may be a solid , just like some of the other elements , perhaps a solid that 's rather volatile .	how many electrons are there in the outer shell of the ununoctium atom ?	how many electrons are there in the outer shell of the ununoctium atom ?
once the drugs are in your bloodstream , they are carried throughout your body , and they go to painful areas just the same as normal ones . so that 's how aspirin and ibuprofen work . but there are other dimensions to pain .	why might aspirin and ibuprofen reduce fever ?	why might aspirin and ibuprofen reduce fever ?
once the drugs are in your bloodstream , they are carried throughout your body , and they go to painful areas just the same as normal ones . so that 's how aspirin and ibuprofen work . but there are other dimensions to pain .	what ’ s the difference between aspirin and ibuprofen ?	what ’ s the difference between aspirin and ibuprofen ?
similar marks of our ancestors have been preserved in caves all over the world . the oldest we 've found were made up to 40,000 years ago . what do these images tell us about the ancient human mind and the lives of their creators ?	the oldest examples of cave paints date from :	the oldest examples of cave paints date from :
water , h2o , is bent like your elbow would be bent . and chlorine trifluoride , or clf3 , is shaped like the letter t. remember that what we 've been doing here is expanding on our model of atoms and electrons to build up to 3d shapes . we 'd have to do experiments to figure out if these molecules actually do have the shapes we predict .	chlorine trifluoride ( clf3 ) is shaped like	chlorine trifluoride ( clf3 ) is shaped like
when it happens in your bedroom , it 's a minor nuisance . but in the great outdoors , static electricity can be a terrifying , destructive force of nature . in certain conditions , charge separation will occur in clouds .	why is the phenomenon of static electricity observed more in dry , winter months than in hot , humid summer months ?	why is the phenomenon of static electricity observed more in dry , winter months than in hot , humid summer months ?
when it happens in your bedroom , it 's a minor nuisance . but in the great outdoors , static electricity can be a terrifying , destructive force of nature . in certain conditions , charge separation will occur in clouds .	which of the following will usually create static electricity ?	which of the following will usually create static electricity ?
and let 's jump back to thinking about what 's funny , because some people say it 's real simple : truth is funny . it 's funny because it 's true . but that 's simplistic .	are things funny if they ’ re true ?	are things funny if they ’ re true ?
this recognition is n't limited to others of their species . elephants have also recognized humans they 've bonded with after decades apart . all of this shows that elephant memory goes beyond responses to stimuli .	which of the following is something that no other animals besides elephants and humans do ?	which of the following is something that no other animals besides elephants and humans do ?
a synesthete might not only hear my voice , but also see it , taste it , or feel it as a physical touch . sharing the same root with anesthesia , meaning no sensation , synesthesia means joined sensation . having one type , such as colored hearing , gives you a 50 % chance of having a second , third , or fourth type .	describe the relationship between the words anesthesia and synesthesia .	describe the relationship between the words anesthesia and synesthesia .
they also found soapstone bird figures , which are thought to represent each of the city 's rulers , and young calf bones , only unearthed near the royal residence , show how the diet of the elite differed from the general population . these clues have also led to theories about the city 's decline . by the mid-15th century , the buildings at great zimbabwe were almost all that remained .	what likely led to great zimbabwe ’ s decline ?	what likely led to great zimbabwe ’ s decline ?
paleontologists will be some of your biggest fans along with all those admiring crowds at the museum . you made it ! you spent years underground in obscurity , shedding blood , sweat , tears , and your internal organs .	some types of materials made by organisms get fossilized more easily than others , and some places and environments on earth are more likely to preserve fossils than others . how might these biases affect our view of life through time ?	some types of materials made by organisms get fossilized more easily than others , and some places and environments on earth are more likely to preserve fossils than others . how might these biases affect our view of life through time ?
even though you can calculate the theoretical probability of each outcome , you might not get the expected results if you examine just a few events . but if you repeat those random events many , many , many times , the frequency of a specific outcome , like a player two win , will approach its theoretical probability , that value we got by writing down all the possibilities and counting up the ones for each outcome . so , if you sat on that desert island playing dice forever , player two would eventually win 56 % of the games , and player one would win 44 % .	now , let 's try to compute the probabilities for each player in this game . get a piece of paper , and create a table just like the one in the video . show every possible outcome for two dice . 1. how many cells are favorable to me ? 2. how many cells are favorable to you ? 3. which player has a higher probability of winning a match in this game ?	now , let 's try to compute the probabilities for each player in this game . get a piece of paper , and create a table just like the one in the video . show every possible outcome for two dice . 1. how many cells are favorable to me ? 2. how many cells are favorable to you ? 3. which player has a higher probability of winning a match in this game ?
alpha causes the most ionization as it crashes into other atoms and gamma the least . in humans , the most serious effect of radiation is the damage that it can cause to our dna . although alpha can not penetrate your skin , if you inhale or injest a radioactive nucleus , the health consequences can be severe .	the most serious effect of radiation on humans is :	the most serious effect of radiation on humans is :
so enough about bobbing corks ... what about light and color ? if light is a wave , then it must have a frequency . right ?	what are you measuring when you measure the period of a wave ?	what are you measuring when you measure the period of a wave ?
uv light can cause damage that 's a little harder to fix . sometimes , it causes two adjacent nucleotides to stick together , distorting the dna 's double helix shape . damage like this requires a more complex process called nucleotide excision repair .	which dna repair pathway deals with dna damage that causes distortion of double-stranded helix ?	which dna repair pathway deals with dna damage that causes distortion of double-stranded helix ?
it was made for listeners rather than readers , and was performed by oral poets called rhapsodes . tradition identifies its author as a blind man named homer . but no one definitively knows whether he was real or legendary .	the oral tradition of `` iliad '' and `` odyssey '' make these stories cultural , communal , entertainment experiences . since homer ’ s time , in what ways has public , communal entertainment changed ?	the oral tradition of `` iliad '' and `` odyssey '' make these stories cultural , communal , entertainment experiences . since homer ’ s time , in what ways has public , communal entertainment changed ?
free from the constraints of the present and our assumptions of what 's impossible , science fiction serves as a useful tool for thinking outside of the box . many futurists recognize this , and some are beginning to employ science fictions writers in their teams . just recently , a project called iknow proposed scenarios that look much like science fiction stories .	how do futurists make forecasts ?	how do futurists make forecasts ?
however , this success comes at a cost to you , the host . a quickly replicating virus can cause more damage to your body , making cold symptoms more severe . if you 're too sick to leave your home , you do n't give the virus any opportunities to jump to a new host .	you have been exposed to a virus that benefits from a mobile host . make a chart describing in detail the effects of having too much , too little and just the right amount of this virus in your body . include the amount of replication , symptoms of each type , and chance of transmission .	you have been exposed to a virus that benefits from a mobile host . make a chart describing in detail the effects of having too much , too little and just the right amount of this virus in your body . include the amount of replication , symptoms of each type , and chance of transmission .
guess what ? no one knows . most of those questions puzzle me more now than ever .	schools don ’ t devote a lot of time to questions that no one knows the answers to . why ? what effect ( s ) does this have , in your opinion ?	schools don ’ t devote a lot of time to questions that no one knows the answers to . why ? what effect ( s ) does this have , in your opinion ?
so how did you outsmart the dictator ? it might help to realize that the amount of prisoners is arbitrary . let 's simplify things by imagining just two , adria and bill .	which is not a condition limiting how you speak to the prisoners ?	which is not a condition limiting how you speak to the prisoners ?
smith uses language in a way that is powerful , direct , and filled with vivid images . compare her language to a haiku , the ancient japanese poetic form that emphasizes bursts of brief intensity with just three lines of five , seven , and five syllables . the waters of poetry run wide and deep .	what is a haiku ?	what is a haiku ?
the answer is , it depends . the world 's most common fluids like water , oils and alcohols respond to force linearly . if you push on them twice as hard , they move twice as fast .	how does a newtonian fluid respond to force ?	how does a newtonian fluid respond to force ?
in the early 1960s , dick fosbury tried his hand at almost every sport , but never excelled at anything , until , at the age of 16 , he turned to the high jump . but when he could n't compete against the strong athletes at his college using the standard high jump techniques of the time , fosbury tried to jump a different way : backwards .	which of the following sentences is true ?	which of the following sentences is true ?
some of the most common types of fraud do n't even register as such to the perpetrator . examples include employees fudging time sheets or expense reports , taxpayers failing to report cash earnings , or service providers overbilling insurance companies . though these may seem small , and can sometimes only involve hundreds of dollars , they all contribute to the big picture .	discuss how fraudulently making higher insurance claims or falsifying time sheets could be harmful to you or your community .	discuss how fraudulently making higher insurance claims or falsifying time sheets could be harmful to you or your community .
competition fosters excellence , or so thought the ancient greeks . in addition to sporting events , contests were held for music , singing , and poetry . you can read about them all yourself in classical literary works , like homer 's `` iliad '' and virgil 's `` aeneid . ''	which events made up the pentathlon ?	which events made up the pentathlon ?
an experiment showed that the amount of nurturing a mother rat provides its newborn baby plays a part in determining how that baby responds to stress later in life . the pups of nurturing moms turned out less sensitive to stress because their brains developed more cortisol receptors , which stick to cortisol and dampen the stress response . the pups of negligent moms had the opposite outcome , and so became more sensitive to stress throughout life .	how does increased cortisol make you more afraid ?	how does increased cortisol make you more afraid ?
through our understanding of this relationship between brightness and decline rate , we can use these supernovae to probe distances up to several billions of light years away . but why is it important to see such distant objects anyway ? well , remember how fast light travels .	which of the following is not used to obtain distances of astronomical objects ?	which of the following is not used to obtain distances of astronomical objects ?
i mean , you 're the president of the united states : a country with five thousand nuclear weapons , birthplace of the world 's computing and telecommunications industry , home of the first atomic clock and creator of the global positioning system . but chances are , if you just took regular american high school physics , you do n't know one iota about the science behind these things ( no offense ) . that 's because high school physics students across most of america are not required to learn about pretty much any physical phenomena discovered or explained more recently than 1865 . yes , 1865 .	what is one reason the video gives as a reason why those who are in charge of shaping high school physics curricula do not include any topics that were discovered/developed after 1865 ?	what is one reason the video gives as a reason why those who are in charge of shaping high school physics curricula do not include any topics that were discovered/developed after 1865 ?
i mean , you 're the president of the united states : a country with five thousand nuclear weapons , birthplace of the world 's computing and telecommunications industry , home of the first atomic clock and creator of the global positioning system . but chances are , if you just took regular american high school physics , you do n't know one iota about the science behind these things ( no offense ) . that 's because high school physics students across most of america are not required to learn about pretty much any physical phenomena discovered or explained more recently than 1865 . yes , 1865 .	read the `` dig deeper '' section before responding to this question : do you think a high school student would find the topic you researched interesting/valuable to learn about ? why or why not ?	read the `` dig deeper '' section before responding to this question : do you think a high school student would find the topic you researched interesting/valuable to learn about ? why or why not ?
roughly fifteen days before fertilization can happen , the anterior pituitary gland secretes follicle stimulating hormone , fsh , which ripens a handful of follicles of the ovary that then release estrogen . each follicle contains one egg , and on average , only one follicle becomes fully mature . as it grows and continues to release estrogen , this hormone not only helps coordinate growth and preparation of the uterus , it also communicates to the brain how well the follicle is developing .	why does the female body only release one-egg ( on average ) each month while a man can produce millions of sperm multiple times a month ?	why does the female body only release one-egg ( on average ) each month while a man can produce millions of sperm multiple times a month ?
roughly fifteen days before fertilization can happen , the anterior pituitary gland secretes follicle stimulating hormone , fsh , which ripens a handful of follicles of the ovary that then release estrogen . each follicle contains one egg , and on average , only one follicle becomes fully mature . as it grows and continues to release estrogen , this hormone not only helps coordinate growth and preparation of the uterus , it also communicates to the brain how well the follicle is developing .	how can one baby be the product of multiple parents ? ( hint : think about where eggs can come from , sperm , having someone else carry a pregnancy , adoption , etc . extra credit for those who consider mitochondrial dna )	how can one baby be the product of multiple parents ? ( hint : think about where eggs can come from , sperm , having someone else carry a pregnancy , adoption , etc . extra credit for those who consider mitochondrial dna )
currently , the fda does n't suggest a recommended daily limit for sugar , so it 's hard to tell if this 65 grams in a bottle of soda is a little or a lot . but the world health organization recommends limiting sugar to just 5 % of your total calories , or about 25 grams per day . so , 65 grams is well over twice that amount .	what is the world health organization limit for grams of sugar per day ?	what is the world health organization limit for grams of sugar per day ?
with bleeding under control and the barrier secured , the body sends special cells to fight any pathogens that may have gotten through . among the most important of these are white blood cells , known as macrophages , which devour bacteria and damage tissue through a process known as phagocytosis , in addition to producing growth factors to spur healing . and because these tiny soldiers need to travel through the blood to get to the wound site , the previously constricted blood vessels now expand in a process called vasodilation . about two to three days after the wound , the proliferative stage occurs , when fibroblast cells begin to enter the wound .	the process of previously constricted blood vessels expanding is known as :	the process of previously constricted blood vessels expanding is known as :
the restrictions on african-americans , including african-american women , remained . after world war ii , many americans began to question the state of u.s. democracy . how could a nation that fought for freedom and human rights abroad come home and deny suffrage based on race ?	after the civil war , the us ratified the 15th amendment . what did it state ?	after the civil war , the us ratified the 15th amendment . what did it state ?
their idea is based on the work of a mathematician named john von neumann , who designed on paper machines that could self-replicate and create new generations of themselves . these would later come to be known as von neumann machines . in the context of space exploration , von neumann machines could be built on earth and launched into space . there , the self-sufficient machines would land on distant planets .	what are von neumann machines ?	what are von neumann machines ?
their idea is based on the work of a mathematician named john von neumann , who designed on paper machines that could self-replicate and create new generations of themselves . these would later come to be known as von neumann machines . in the context of space exploration , von neumann machines could be built on earth and launched into space . there , the self-sufficient machines would land on distant planets .	how did von neumann build his machines ?	how did von neumann build his machines ?
their idea is based on the work of a mathematician named john von neumann , who designed on paper machines that could self-replicate and create new generations of themselves . these would later come to be known as von neumann machines . in the context of space exploration , von neumann machines could be built on earth and launched into space . there , the self-sufficient machines would land on distant planets .	why are some people concerned about von neumann machines ?	why are some people concerned about von neumann machines ?
their idea is based on the work of a mathematician named john von neumann , who designed on paper machines that could self-replicate and create new generations of themselves . these would later come to be known as von neumann machines . in the context of space exploration , von neumann machines could be built on earth and launched into space . there , the self-sufficient machines would land on distant planets .	alien von neumann machines :	alien von neumann machines :
their idea is based on the work of a mathematician named john von neumann , who designed on paper machines that could self-replicate and create new generations of themselves . these would later come to be known as von neumann machines . in the context of space exploration , von neumann machines could be built on earth and launched into space . there , the self-sufficient machines would land on distant planets .	do you think we should build von neumann machines if we have the necessary capabilities ?	do you think we should build von neumann machines if we have the necessary capabilities ?
their idea is based on the work of a mathematician named john von neumann , who designed on paper machines that could self-replicate and create new generations of themselves . these would later come to be known as von neumann machines . in the context of space exploration , von neumann machines could be built on earth and launched into space . there , the self-sufficient machines would land on distant planets .	do you think we ’ ll ever encounter alien von neumann machines ? if not – why ?	do you think we ’ ll ever encounter alien von neumann machines ? if not – why ?
maybe it 's no surprise that these guys are also responsible for stomach ulcers . so , when you look really closely at our bodies and the world around us , you can see all sorts of tiny creatures finding clever ways to get around in a sticky situation . without these adaptations , bacteria would never find their hosts , and sperms would never make it to their eggs , which means you would never get stomach ulcers , but you would also never be born in the first place .	`` when you look really , really closely at our bodies and the world around us , you can see all sorts of tiny creatures finding clever ways to get around in a sticky situation . '' list three adaptations used by microbes to get around in the low reynolds number world .	`` when you look really , really closely at our bodies and the world around us , you can see all sorts of tiny creatures finding clever ways to get around in a sticky situation . '' list three adaptations used by microbes to get around in the low reynolds number world .
whatever the color , our skin tells an epic tale of human intrepidness and adaptability , revealing its variance to be a function of biology . it all centers around melanin , the pigment that gives skin and hair its color . this ingredient comes from skin cells called melanocytes and takes two basic forms . there 's eumelanin , which gives rise to a range of brown skin tones , as well as black , brown , and blond hair , and pheomelanin , which causes the reddish browns of freckles and red hair .	the ingredient that gives skin its color and a version of its own sunscreen is known as :	the ingredient that gives skin its color and a version of its own sunscreen is known as :
you 'll need more panels . more panels , please ! okay , in each panel , andrew 's in a slightly different place . so i can see each one records where andrew is at a different time .	we showed how spacetime diagrams are like the edge of a flipbook , and so can be created by stacking up a series of animation panels . a single panel tells us :	we showed how spacetime diagrams are like the edge of a flipbook , and so can be created by stacking up a series of animation panels . a single panel tells us :
congratulations ! ... you have completed the fafsa on your way to be receiving financial aid to help pay for school the next page gives you when efc number efc stands for estimated family contribution , you later receive an award letter from the school or schools to which you applied . the award letter will tell you how much money you will be awarded ! thanks for watching our little igrad fafsa tutorial we wish you the best of luck this school season .	explain how your efc will affect your chances of an award .	explain how your efc will affect your chances of an award .
well , look no further . this is olympus mons , the largest volcano in the solar system . even if mars had a breathable atmosphere , you 'd find the views from the 25 kilometer summit breathtaking .	how tall is the largest volcano in our solar system ?	how tall is the largest volcano in our solar system ?
for blood transfusions , finding the correct one is a matter of life and death . if someone with type a blood is given type b blood , or vice versa , their antibodies will reject the foreign antigens and attack them , potentially causing the transfused blood to clot . but because people with type ab blood produce both a and b antigens , they do n't make antibodies against them , so they will recognize either as safe , making them universal recipients .	there have been books written about how blood type affects personality or body shape . knowing that blood type is determined by antigens on erythrocytes , are these claims scientifically valid ?	there have been books written about how blood type affects personality or body shape . knowing that blood type is determined by antigens on erythrocytes , are these claims scientifically valid ?
for blood transfusions , finding the correct one is a matter of life and death . if someone with type a blood is given type b blood , or vice versa , their antibodies will reject the foreign antigens and attack them , potentially causing the transfused blood to clot . but because people with type ab blood produce both a and b antigens , they do n't make antibodies against them , so they will recognize either as safe , making them universal recipients .	let 's say your name is gilligan , you 've survived a shipwreck and you 're stranded on a desert island . you happen to have been stranded with a medical doctor that has a limited stock of medical supplies . one of your shipmates is in desperate need of a blood transfusion but does n't know his blood type . you do know your blood type . how could you type his blood with your knowledge and limited medical supplies ?	let 's say your name is gilligan , you 've survived a shipwreck and you 're stranded on a desert island . you happen to have been stranded with a medical doctor that has a limited stock of medical supplies . one of your shipmates is in desperate need of a blood transfusion but does n't know his blood type . you do know your blood type . how could you type his blood with your knowledge and limited medical supplies ?
some words are capable of taking on different guises , masquerading as nouns , verbs and adjectives that alter their meanings entirely . this seeming superpower is called lexical ambiguity . it can turn words and sentences into mazes that mess with our minds .	lexical ambiguity :	lexical ambiguity :
some words are capable of taking on different guises , masquerading as nouns , verbs and adjectives that alter their meanings entirely . this seeming superpower is called lexical ambiguity . it can turn words and sentences into mazes that mess with our minds .	here 's an example of lexical ambiguity . see if you can figure out what this sentence is saying : `` will , will will will 's will to will ? ''	here 's an example of lexical ambiguity . see if you can figure out what this sentence is saying : `` will , will will will 's will to will ? ''
not quite literally , but without early man 's discovery of using seeds to grow grain , we would n't have much of anything we have today . growing your own food changed everything . sure , hunting and gathering worked just fine for tens of thousands of years , but you could n't do much else - no time .	what group was given its name because of the way it searched for food ?	what group was given its name because of the way it searched for food ?
not quite literally , but without early man 's discovery of using seeds to grow grain , we would n't have much of anything we have today . growing your own food changed everything . sure , hunting and gathering worked just fine for tens of thousands of years , but you could n't do much else - no time .	agriculture , or growing plants and raising animals for food , developed in several regions of the world around the same time and changed human society forever . explain the effects this had on the typical way of life for hunter-gatherers .	agriculture , or growing plants and raising animals for food , developed in several regions of the world around the same time and changed human society forever . explain the effects this had on the typical way of life for hunter-gatherers .
it 's used to destabilize the molecule , to push the bonds between the atoms to a place where they are ready to break . this unstable state is known as the molecule 's transition state . once a transition state has been achieved , the atoms become willing to leave their current molecular friends and go make new friends elsewhere .	the work part of a chemical reaction happens in moving reactants towards their transition state . explain why the body does not need to put in any more energy once the substrate has reached its transition state .	the work part of a chemical reaction happens in moving reactants towards their transition state . explain why the body does not need to put in any more energy once the substrate has reached its transition state .
the resulting cycle of damage and repair eventually makes muscles bigger and stronger as they adapt to progressively greater demands . since our bodies have already adapted to most everyday activities , those generally do n't produce enough stress to stimulate new muscle growth . so , to build new muscle , a process called hypertrophy , our cells need to be exposed to higher workloads than they are used to .	everyday activities do not produce significant muscle growth because :	everyday activities do not produce significant muscle growth because :
temüjin remained with his first bride all his life , even raising her possibly illegitimate son as his own . '' `` regardless , genghis khan 's legacy was a disaster : up to 40 million killed across eurasia during his descendents ' conquests . 10 % of the world population .	what is the maximum estimate of people killed during the mongol conquests of eurasia ?	what is the maximum estimate of people killed during the mongol conquests of eurasia ?
if both people in a relationship are saying yes to this , they 're going to have massive problems . we realized this early on , and so we decided we needed a bit more data from each question . we had to ask people to specify not only their own answer , but the answer they wanted from someone else .	what was the last data point that okcupid needed from each question ?	what was the last data point that okcupid needed from each question ?
on the other hand , insulators like plastics , rubber and glass have tightly bound electrons that wo n't readily jump to other atoms . static build-up is most likely to occur when one of the materials involved is an insulator . when you walk across a rug , electrons from your body will rub off onto it , while the rug 's insulating wool will resist losing its own electrons .	explain why for static electricity to occur between two surfaces that are rubbed against each other , one of the materials has to be an insulator .	explain why for static electricity to occur between two surfaces that are rubbed against each other , one of the materials has to be an insulator .
first of all , topology is a branch of mathematics that focuses on fundamental properties of objects . topological properties do n't change when an object is gradually stretched or bent . the object has to be torn or attached in new places .	topological properties don ’ t change when an object is :	topological properties don ’ t change when an object is :
hydrogen and carbon dioxide are the most common gaseous products of bacterial fermentation , and are odorless . some people also produce methane due to specific microbes present in their gut . but methane is actually odorless , too .	the smell humans produce from flatulence is due to :	the smell humans produce from flatulence is due to :
like the minotaur , her myths included tales of destruction , but they also contained elements of dance and creation . so why did hawaii end up with pele and crete end up with the minotaur ? the difference likely comes down to the lava that followed many of hawaii 's worst earthquakes .	if you wanted to make pele into a monster , what would you change about the geology of hawaii ?	if you wanted to make pele into a monster , what would you change about the geology of hawaii ?
and 40 million years ago , westeros was likely covered by a huge ice sheet , which retreated as glaciers , cutting the great valleys south of winterfell and the riverlands between harrenhal and the twins . the description of the jagged black mountains sounds a lot like our own rocky mountains , which were born around 60-80 million years ago . this would also mark the birth of the mountains of the moon and the high westerlands , as north and south westeros smashed together just like the fault beneath the himalayas .	how many millions of years ago were the rocky mountains created ?	how many millions of years ago were the rocky mountains created ?
they create a stored form of energy , in the form of carbohydrates such as glucose and sucrose . the process is called photosynthesis . when animals like us eat those plants our stomachs convert that food back into energy for our own growth .	the process of plants turning sunlight and carbon into sucrose and glucose is called :	the process of plants turning sunlight and carbon into sucrose and glucose is called :
this episode of scishow might make you a little paranoid about computer viruses and internet security . but that ’ s probably a good thing .	what is the objective of most computer viruses ?	what is the objective of most computer viruses ?
each one contains about 270 million oxygen-binding molecules of hemoglobin , which is what gives blood its scarlet hue . to make these cells , the body uses raw materials that become available from the food we eat . so in some ways , you could say that oxygen 's journey through the body really begins in the gut .	from cells to major organ systems , the architecture of the body and the functions the body can perform are very closely related . can you identify body cells , tissues , organs , systems that demonstrate this relationship and discuss its significance ?	from cells to major organ systems , the architecture of the body and the functions the body can perform are very closely related . can you identify body cells , tissues , organs , systems that demonstrate this relationship and discuss its significance ?
but salinity differs , and in this scenario , that 's what triggers the action . here , the sun 's rays melt surface ice , depositing a new load of water molecules into the sea . that not only increases the proximity between you and other water molecules , leaving you vying for space again , but it also conversely dilutes the concentration of salt ions .	in temperate regions , the ocean surface water is heated by the sun , causing some water molecules to evaporate . how would you expect this to affect the concentration of salt molecules ?	in temperate regions , the ocean surface water is heated by the sun , causing some water molecules to evaporate . how would you expect this to affect the concentration of salt molecules ?
but salinity differs , and in this scenario , that 's what triggers the action . here , the sun 's rays melt surface ice , depositing a new load of water molecules into the sea . that not only increases the proximity between you and other water molecules , leaving you vying for space again , but it also conversely dilutes the concentration of salt ions .	in polar regions , if there is little run-off coming from glacial melt water , how do you think this will affect the overall movement of h20 and salt molecules in the water column ?	in polar regions , if there is little run-off coming from glacial melt water , how do you think this will affect the overall movement of h20 and salt molecules in the water column ?
it ’ s a metal ; moderate abundance . it ’ s called a rare earth element , which is really quite ironic because it ’ s not as rare as its name would suggest . the abundance is something like 20 to 30 times that of silver , so i don ’ t think it ’ s really rare .	why does pete say that it is ironic for the name `` rare earth '' to be applied to terbium ?	why does pete say that it is ironic for the name `` rare earth '' to be applied to terbium ?
but one last reason why jackson pollock 's work has stayed prominent stems from the specific objects he made , which embody fascinating contradictions . for instance , while pollock 's process resulted in radically flat painted surfaces , the web of painted lines can create the illusion of an infinite layered depth when examined up close . and the chaos of this tangled mess seems to defy all control , but it 's actually the product of a deliberate , though not pre-planned , process .	when examined up close , pollock ’ s paintings :	when examined up close , pollock ’ s paintings :
these players were n't very friendly , they were all quite overpaid and they acted more like celebrities . in middle school , a friend introduced me to a new way to collect autographs : writing the players through the mail . in doing so , i would write a letter , send a self-addressed stamped envelope , and send a few baseball cards .	what is the new way cam learned to find player 's autographs ?	what is the new way cam learned to find player 's autographs ?
after all , we have n't walked just one mile in jane austen 's or mark twain 's shoes - we 've walked about 100 trillion miles in them . this is n't to say that we ca n't read and enjoy the classics ; we should travel with dickens , let pip teach us what to expect from ourselves , have a talk with austen and elizabeth about our prides and prejudices . we should float with twain down the mississippi , and have jim show us what it means to be good .	wise suggests that we should read only the classics because they capture , in essence , the breadth and depth of the human condition . the `` terrain '' will never change .	wise suggests that we should read only the classics because they capture , in essence , the breadth and depth of the human condition . the `` terrain '' will never change .
for saturated fats , the story pretty much ends there but not for unsaturated fats . the double bonds in these molecules have a kind of weird property ; they 're rigid . so , that means there are two ways to arrange every double bond . the first is like this , where both hydrogens are on same side and both carbons are on the same side .	what property of double bonds accounts for the two different types of unsaturated fat ?	what property of double bonds accounts for the two different types of unsaturated fat ?
as these excited molecules return to their original states , they lose a bit of energy as heat and then radiate the rest as light . energy is inversely related to wavelength , which means that the longer wavelengths have lower energy . so the lower energy light given off by the strip means longer wavelengths that fall in the visible range , and suddenly we can see that which had been invisible .	energy and wavelength are inversely related , which means that if energy increases then wavelength _____ .	energy and wavelength are inversely related , which means that if energy increases then wavelength _____ .
plants do n't have to rely solely on those airborne broadcasts . signals can travel below the soil surface , too . most plants have a symbiotic relationship with fungi , which colonize the plants ' roots and help them absorb water and nutrients .	plants communicate below the soil surface :	plants communicate below the soil surface :
but if the flowers are trapped inside the fig how do they get pollinated ? well , that 's where fig wasps come in . in most species , pregnant female fig wasps carrying pollen are attracted to young figs . they enter through a tiny opening at the fig ’ s bottom that ’ s highly selective—it usually only lets in the exact species of wasps that pollinate it .	wasps crawl inside figs because ...	wasps crawl inside figs because ...
but if the flowers are trapped inside the fig how do they get pollinated ? well , that 's where fig wasps come in . in most species , pregnant female fig wasps carrying pollen are attracted to young figs . they enter through a tiny opening at the fig ’ s bottom that ’ s highly selective—it usually only lets in the exact species of wasps that pollinate it .	before the newly-hatched female fig wasps leave the fig , they pick up some pollen , then bore their way out through tiny holes . so when they enter a new fig what two tasks are they accomplishing ?	before the newly-hatched female fig wasps leave the fig , they pick up some pollen , then bore their way out through tiny holes . so when they enter a new fig what two tasks are they accomplishing ?
but if the flowers are trapped inside the fig how do they get pollinated ? well , that 's where fig wasps come in . in most species , pregnant female fig wasps carrying pollen are attracted to young figs . they enter through a tiny opening at the fig ’ s bottom that ’ s highly selective—it usually only lets in the exact species of wasps that pollinate it .	if the newly-hatched female fig wasps bore their way out of the fig , then why are there sometimes dead wasps inside of figs ?	if the newly-hatched female fig wasps bore their way out of the fig , then why are there sometimes dead wasps inside of figs ?
okay , what about antarctica ? antarctica is earth 's southernmost continent , and it contains the geographic south pole . it 's the fifth largest continent on the planet at nearly twice the size of australia .	what is unique about the south pole ?	what is unique about the south pole ?
we do n't know exactly when wave sliding was invented , but we know that it had already been practiced in polynesia for centuries by the time it was described in 1777 by william anderson , a surgeon on captain cook 's ship `` resolution . '' although anderson was in awe , most of the american christian missionaries who arrived in hawaii several decades later regarded surfing as sinful , and they discouraged it , along with other aspects of native culture . the biggest threat to surfing , however , was the threat to the natives themselves .	the american interest in hawai ‘ i – first as missionaries , then as colonizers – fundamentally changed surf culture . how ?	the american interest in hawai ‘ i – first as missionaries , then as colonizers – fundamentally changed surf culture . how ?
there are still some scientists who would say , hogwash . the only meaningful answer to the question of how many universes there are is one , only one universe . and a few philosophers and mystics might argue that even our own universe is an illusion .	approximately how many galaxies are there in our own universe	approximately how many galaxies are there in our own universe
there are still some scientists who would say , hogwash . the only meaningful answer to the question of how many universes there are is one , only one universe . and a few philosophers and mystics might argue that even our own universe is an illusion .	why should we care how many universes are out there ?	why should we care how many universes are out there ?
the communication enabled through the internet has many uses , such as email , file transfer , and conferencing . but the most common use is accessing the world wide web . think of the web as a bunch of skyscrapers , each representing a web server , a computer always connected to the internet , specifically designed to store information and share it .	the world wide web and the internet are the same thing , just called different names .	the world wide web and the internet are the same thing , just called different names .
the communication enabled through the internet has many uses , such as email , file transfer , and conferencing . but the most common use is accessing the world wide web . think of the web as a bunch of skyscrapers , each representing a web server , a computer always connected to the internet , specifically designed to store information and share it .	who owns the world wide web ?	who owns the world wide web ?
because ptfe does n't interact with other chemicals very well , it is n't thought to break down inside your body . whether it 's safe to manufacture teflon is another story . dupont and its spin-off company chemours now face lawsuits worth millions of dollars .	what is the recommended maximum safe use temperature for teflon-coated kitchen pans ?	what is the recommended maximum safe use temperature for teflon-coated kitchen pans ?
48 times , the thickness is way over one million miles . now , if you think that the distance between the earth and the moon is less than 250,000 miles , then starting with a piece of bible paper and folding it 45 times , we get to the moon . and if we double it one more time , we get back to earth .	paenza says , “ folding a piece of bible paper 45 times , we get to the moon . and if we double it one more time , we get back to earth. ” does this surprise you ? why or why not ? does it make the great distance between the earth and the moon any more comprehensible ? what other expressions have you heard that help you get a good sense of scale and distance ( like the distance from the earth to the moon ) ?	paenza says , “ folding a piece of bible paper 45 times , we get to the moon . and if we double it one more time , we get back to earth. ” does this surprise you ? why or why not ? does it make the great distance between the earth and the moon any more comprehensible ? what other expressions have you heard that help you get a good sense of scale and distance ( like the distance from the earth to the moon ) ?
yes , but when you 're stuck at the bottom of the tech tree , almost none of them can be domesticated . from the dawn of man until this fateful meeting , humans domesticated ; maybe a baker 's dozen of unique species the world over . and even to get that high a number you need to stretch it to include honeybees and silkworms ; nice to have , but you ca n't build a civilization on a foundation of honey alone .	from the dawn of man to the moment european colonizers came to the americas , how many species of animals were domesticated the world over ?	from the dawn of man to the moment european colonizers came to the americas , how many species of animals were domesticated the world over ?
if you looked at that thumbnail-sized patch of sky with the hubble space telescope , instead of points of light , you 'd see smudges . these are n't stars . they 're galaxies , just like our milky way .	it is impossible to send astronauts to other stars with the current technology , yet astronomers have been actively looking for lives on exoplanets ( i.e . planets orbiting other stars ) . from what we have learned about stars , how could scientists find other life out in space even though they can not send anybody there to investigate ?	it is impossible to send astronauts to other stars with the current technology , yet astronomers have been actively looking for lives on exoplanets ( i.e . planets orbiting other stars ) . from what we have learned about stars , how could scientists find other life out in space even though they can not send anybody there to investigate ?
echolocation , a type of biological sonar , is also used by bats as a way to navigate and find prey in the dark . although there 's a common misconception that bats are blind , in truth , all species of bats have sight . and some have even adapted large eyes to see better in dim lighting .	even though bats have a lot of heroic qualities , the public perception of bats can be negative or fueled by misinformation . what are some common misconceptions about bats , and what is actually true about them ?	even though bats have a lot of heroic qualities , the public perception of bats can be negative or fueled by misinformation . what are some common misconceptions about bats , and what is actually true about them ?
but it ’ s too late , the first 50 people in your address book have already gotten a copy of the exact same email , with a subject line saying that the message is from you . that was the melissa virus . it spread through microsoft ’ s outlook email program , and even though the attachment seemed like an innocent word document , it was able to infect computers because of something called a macro .	the melissa virus was a `` macro '' virus . what does that mean ?	the melissa virus was a `` macro '' virus . what does that mean ?
but it ’ s too late , the first 50 people in your address book have already gotten a copy of the exact same email , with a subject line saying that the message is from you . that was the melissa virus . it spread through microsoft ’ s outlook email program , and even though the attachment seemed like an innocent word document , it was able to infect computers because of something called a macro .	what can you do to prevent getting a computer virus ?	what can you do to prevent getting a computer virus ?
these seemingly crude methods of search and retrieval are , in fact , so useful that they are applied in computer models to obtain optimal solutions from decentralized elements , working randomly and exchanging simple information . this has many theoretical and practical applications , from solving the famous traveling salesman problem , to scheduling computing tasks and optimizing internet searches , to enabling groups of robots to search a minefield or a burning building collectively , without any central control . but you can observe these fascinatingly simple , yet effective , processes directly through some simple experiments , by allowing ants to enter empty spaces of various sizes and paying attention to their behavior .	for what kinds of tasks is it necessary to have a plan , or central control , and for what kinds of tasks is it better to work collectively , with each individual using only what it can detect nearby ?	for what kinds of tasks is it necessary to have a plan , or central control , and for what kinds of tasks is it better to work collectively , with each individual using only what it can detect nearby ?
most astrobiologists are trying to figure out if there 's microbial life on mars , or in the ocean under the frozen surface of jupiter 's moon europa , or in the liquid hydrocarbon lakes that we 've found on saturn 's moon titan . but one group of astrobiologists works on seti . seti is the search for extraterrestrial intelligence , and seti researchers are trying to detect some evidence that intelligent creatures elsewhere have used technology to build a transmitter of some sort .	what does `` seti '' stand for ?	what does `` seti '' stand for ?
most astrobiologists are trying to figure out if there 's microbial life on mars , or in the ocean under the frozen surface of jupiter 's moon europa , or in the liquid hydrocarbon lakes that we 've found on saturn 's moon titan . but one group of astrobiologists works on seti . seti is the search for extraterrestrial intelligence , and seti researchers are trying to detect some evidence that intelligent creatures elsewhere have used technology to build a transmitter of some sort .	what are other kinds of initiatives begun by astrobiologists ? while seti is looking for technologically advanced civilizations , what forms of life are others looking for and where ?	what are other kinds of initiatives begun by astrobiologists ? while seti is looking for technologically advanced civilizations , what forms of life are others looking for and where ?
hannah fry : so today we 're going to talk about rock-paper-scissors and i reckon everyone knows how to play it scissors beats paper , paper covers rock , rock blunts scissors , so three -- brady : wait , i always thought it smashed them ? dr. fry : oh , i thought it blunts them actually , if anything , it would probably sharpen them , right ?	what two important findings did scientists come up with about how people try to beat each other at rock paper scissors ?	what two important findings did scientists come up with about how people try to beat each other at rock paper scissors ?
it is possible for a candidate to not get a single person 's vote -- not one vote -- in 39 states , or the district of columbia , yet be elected president by winning the popular vote in just 11 of these 12 states : california , new york , texas , florida , pennsylvania , illinois , ohio , michigan , new jersey , north carolina , georgia or virginia . this is why both parties pay attention to these states . however , others argue that the electoral college protects small states such as rhode island , vermont and new hampshire , and even geographically large states with small populations like alaska , wyoming and the dakotas . that 's because a candidate ca n't completely ignore small states , because in a close election , every electoral vote counts .	the electoral college is known to assist small states as well as geographically large states with small populations . do you think that the electoral college benefits the small states ? what other system could be implemented to help states with small populations ?	the electoral college is known to assist small states as well as geographically large states with small populations . do you think that the electoral college benefits the small states ? what other system could be implemented to help states with small populations ?
galileo seems to have been the first person to realize that there is no such thing as an absolute speed . speeds are relative . this means that speeds only have meaning when they are referred to a reference frame .	will the day ever come when knowing that all speeds are relative is intuitive and does not have to be learned ? what future experiences might help such intuition to develop in early childhood ?	will the day ever come when knowing that all speeds are relative is intuitive and does not have to be learned ? what future experiences might help such intuition to develop in early childhood ?
normally , the electrons and protons in an atom balance out , which is why most matter you come across is electrically neutral . but electrons are tiny and almost insignificant in mass , and rubbing or friction can give loosely bound electrons enough energy to leave their atoms and attach to others , migrating between different surfaces . when this happens , the first object is left with more protons than electrons and becomes positively charged , while the one with more electrons accumulates a negative charge . this situation is called a charge imbalance , or net charge separation .	what happens to a material that collects electrons on its surface ?	what happens to a material that collects electrons on its surface ?
normally , the electrons and protons in an atom balance out , which is why most matter you come across is electrically neutral . but electrons are tiny and almost insignificant in mass , and rubbing or friction can give loosely bound electrons enough energy to leave their atoms and attach to others , migrating between different surfaces . when this happens , the first object is left with more protons than electrons and becomes positively charged , while the one with more electrons accumulates a negative charge . this situation is called a charge imbalance , or net charge separation .	how does friction between two materials cause electrons to jump from one and stick to another ?	how does friction between two materials cause electrons to jump from one and stick to another ?
one is length . fatty acids can be short or long . another , more important difference is the type of bond between the carbon atoms .	triglycerides are composed of glycerol and ___ fatty acid chains .	triglycerides are composed of glycerol and ___ fatty acid chains .
in old english , they said , `` urne gedaeghwamlican hlaf syle us todaeg . '' things change in conlangs , too . tolkien charted out ancient and newer versions of elvish .	conlangs are :	conlangs are :
both have lenses to focus light and sensors to capture it , but even those things behave differently . the lens in a camera moves to stay focused on an object hurtling towards it , while the one in your eye responds by changing shape . most camera lenses are also achromatic , meaning they focus both red and blue light to the same point .	as an object moves towards the eye , the lens _____ in order to keep the object in focus .	as an object moves towards the eye , the lens _____ in order to keep the object in focus .
both have lenses to focus light and sensors to capture it , but even those things behave differently . the lens in a camera moves to stay focused on an object hurtling towards it , while the one in your eye responds by changing shape . most camera lenses are also achromatic , meaning they focus both red and blue light to the same point .	all good quality cameras use an achromatic lens to project a clear image on the photoreceptors , whereas the lens in the human eye _____ .	all good quality cameras use an achromatic lens to project a clear image on the photoreceptors , whereas the lens in the human eye _____ .
so it was only after the start of nuclear research that people discovered promethium , even some of the products from the decay from other radioactive elements . and you can see this quite well : this is an old chemistry book that i ’ ve got , written by aston , the famous scientist who discovered isotopes – atoms of the same element that have different weights - and in this book which he published in 1922… hold it a bit more vertical . ok go ahead .	the professor showed us an old chemistry book , written by aston in 1922 , without promethium in the periodic table . which other element did he show was missing because it had yet to be discovered at that time ?	the professor showed us an old chemistry book , written by aston in 1922 , without promethium in the periodic table . which other element did he show was missing because it had yet to be discovered at that time ?
your eyes , your hands , your body : that 's you . only crazy people would deny that , and you know you 're not crazy . anyone who 'd doubt that must be dreaming .	how do most people determine truth ?	how do most people determine truth ?
all lifeforms that we 've discovered so far stay alive by using basically the same rules , materials , and machinery . imagine a factory full of robots . these robots have two missions : one , keep the factory running , and two , when the time is right , set up an entirely new factory . to do those things , they need assembly instructions , raw materials , plenty of energy , a few rules about when to work normally , when to work quickly , or when to stop , and some exchange currencies because even robots need to get paid .	in the very beginning of the video , we say that the robots have two missions : ( 1 ) to keep the factory going and ( 2 ) to set up a new factory . is there ever a time when these two missions might conflict with each other ? suggest a few scenarios when this might happen .	in the very beginning of the video , we say that the robots have two missions : ( 1 ) to keep the factory going and ( 2 ) to set up a new factory . is there ever a time when these two missions might conflict with each other ? suggest a few scenarios when this might happen .
i 'm a storyteller . and i would like to tell you a few personal stories about what i like to call `` the danger of the single story . ''	what is the purpose of her introduction ? ( 1:43 )	what is the purpose of her introduction ? ( 1:43 )
both hlafweard , the breadwinner , and hlafdige , the bread kneader , came to be titles of respect , referring to citizens of higher social standing . through a process known as syncopation , both words lost their internal sounds to become lord and lady , respectively . though still an expression of courtesy , lady has since moved down the ladder of social standing and is now often used to mean simply a woman .	how is the syncopation of words similar to the syncopation of music ?	how is the syncopation of words similar to the syncopation of music ?
he dubbed the condition nostalgia , from the greek `` nostos '' for homecoming and `` algos '' for pain or longing . at first , nostalgia was considered a particularly swiss affliction . some doctors proposed that the constant sound of cowbells in the alps caused trauma to the ear drums and brain .	people are particularly likely to feel nostalgic when they are :	people are particularly likely to feel nostalgic when they are :
and their symbols may even correspond directly to ours . they 'd have their own multiplication sign , symbol for pi , and , of course , equals .	the mathematician who first introduced our modern ‘ equals ’ sign was :	the mathematician who first introduced our modern ‘ equals ’ sign was :
the eradication effort took decades and involved millions of people working together , from world leaders and international organizations to rural doctors and community workers . in india , one of the last strongholds of the disease , health workers visited every one of the country 's 100 million households to search for cases . through this unprecedented worldwide effort , in which even rival superpowers cooperated , smallpox was finally declared eradicated in 1980 , saving approximately 40 million lives over the following two decades . there were several factors that made smallpox an ideal candidate for eradication . first , humans are essential to the smallpox lifecycle , so breaking the chain of human to human transmission causes the virus to die out .	smallpox is deadly in up to _____ percent of cases .	smallpox is deadly in up to _____ percent of cases .
the brain produces complex emotions like love or jealousy , it 's what makes us creative and curious , and it can even contemplate about itself . and the brain is the organ we use to study the brain . i think that the brain is the most beautiful organ in our body , but then i ask myself , `` which organ is making me think that ? ''	the brain is the center of our _________ .	the brain is the center of our _________ .
the brain produces complex emotions like love or jealousy , it 's what makes us creative and curious , and it can even contemplate about itself . and the brain is the organ we use to study the brain . i think that the brain is the most beautiful organ in our body , but then i ask myself , `` which organ is making me think that ? ''	given the complexity of our brain and the little we actually know about it , what possibilities for discovery can you imagine in the future ? name at least two things that you think will happen in the next decade because of our increased knowledge of the brain .	given the complexity of our brain and the little we actually know about it , what possibilities for discovery can you imagine in the future ? name at least two things that you think will happen in the next decade because of our increased knowledge of the brain .
the brain produces complex emotions like love or jealousy , it 's what makes us creative and curious , and it can even contemplate about itself . and the brain is the organ we use to study the brain . i think that the brain is the most beautiful organ in our body , but then i ask myself , `` which organ is making me think that ? ''	do you think it 's right or wrong to use the newest technology to manipulate the brain in order to make everyone `` normal '' ?	do you think it 's right or wrong to use the newest technology to manipulate the brain in order to make everyone `` normal '' ?
in the uk and other english-speaking countries , most style guides do not support the comma 's use , with the exception of its namesake , the oxford university press . why not use the serial comma ? one of the main arguments is that the conjunction is usually enough to denote a separate entity .	provide two arguments for why you should use the oxford comma and two for why you should not .	provide two arguments for why you should use the oxford comma and two for why you should not .
it can lift or lull the listener , amplify or diminish the line , unify or diversify ideas . in fact , even rhythm itself , a repeated pattern of stressed syllables , is a form of repetition . yet for all its varied uses , too much repetition can backfire .	a repeated pattern of stressed syllables is known as :	a repeated pattern of stressed syllables is known as :
extreme temperatures were common and fierce storms made life unpredictable . dinosaurs flourished on land , pterosaurs roamed the skies , and giant marine reptiles and sharks swam in warm seas . small mammals , our ancestors , lived quite literally in the shadow of these extraordinary creatures . in this world of huge predators , the river of giants , which is what some call this region of what is now northern africa , stood out as particularly dangerous .	what can we learn from the fact that , in the triassic , jurassic , and cretaceous , dinosaurs ( and other reptiles ) , not mammals ( which were around at the time ) , were the dominant creatures on land ?	what can we learn from the fact that , in the triassic , jurassic , and cretaceous , dinosaurs ( and other reptiles ) , not mammals ( which were around at the time ) , were the dominant creatures on land ?
and if you come across a bat , do not attempt to handle it , but instead , call animal control . batman might want to keep his identity secret , but a great way to help real bats is by continuing to learn about them and spreading the truth that they are real heroes , even if their good deeds are often unseen .	which of these is a good way to help bats ?	which of these is a good way to help bats ?
the size of the rising bump on my conk said to me that this thing had area , and a lot of it . but what if i carved out a triangle from this side here ? as any mook could see , this triangle had a quarter of the area of the full triangle . i did the same thing again with each of the smaller triangles .	which of these is not true of sierpinski ’ s triangle ( the answer to the first riddle ) ?	which of these is not true of sierpinski ’ s triangle ( the answer to the first riddle ) ?
here 's something else you should know before you start counting calories . the calorie counts on nutrition labels measure how much energy the food contains , not how much energy you can actually get out of it . fibrous foods like celery and whole wheat take more energy to digest , so you 'd actually wind up with less energy from a 100 calorie serving of celery than a 100 calorie serving of potato chips .	how much of the energy we consume goes towards supporting the body 's basic functions ?	how much of the energy we consume goes towards supporting the body 's basic functions ?
in this short video , we 're going to show you how we used animation to make custom playing cards to do magical tricks in ted-ed 's lesson on synesthesia . synesthesia is a neurological condition in which two or more senses are paired together to create a completely new experience .	what is the special ingredient the animators used to make this lesson ?	what is the special ingredient the animators used to make this lesson ?
why did people listen and then not listen ? aristotle would be able to explain . what does it take to persuade people ?	explain a time when you anticipated a positive response to an action but did n't get it . what will you do differently next time ?	explain a time when you anticipated a positive response to an action but did n't get it . what will you do differently next time ?
now , each bond represents the sharing of two electrons and we draw each shared pair of electrons as a line . so , now we have a flat representation of this molecule , but how would it look in three dimensions ? we can reasonably say that because each of these bonds is a region of negative electric charge and like charges repel each other , the most favorable configuration of atoms would maximize the distance between bonds . and to get all the bonds as far away from each other as possible , the optimal shape is this .	the most favorable configuration of atoms in a molecule	the most favorable configuration of atoms in a molecule
so , that guy fred there , he did a lot of that . and then we launched it on this rocket to mars . we landed 2,000 pounds on mars , but the entire thing was about 10,000 pounds when we lifted off from earth , all the fuel and the solar arrays and everything else that we needed .	which is not an option for landing a large vehicle on mars ?	which is not an option for landing a large vehicle on mars ?
fusing reactors are way beyond what pete can do unless he is a lot cleverer than i think . i got a balloon ! i had a balloon of hydrogen !	you are holding three balloons , each containing a different gas . balloon a is full of hydrogen , balloon b is full of deuterium , and balloon c is full of carbon dioxide . when released , one balloon falls to the floor and the other two rise to the ceiling , with one balloon rising faster than the other . which of the following statements is true ?	you are holding three balloons , each containing a different gas . balloon a is full of hydrogen , balloon b is full of deuterium , and balloon c is full of carbon dioxide . when released , one balloon falls to the floor and the other two rise to the ceiling , with one balloon rising faster than the other . which of the following statements is true ?
bart and daniel vote nay , but charlotte and eliza grudgingly vote yarr knowing that the alternative would be worse for them . the pirate game involves some interesting concepts from game theory . one is the concept of common knowledge where each person is aware of what the others know and uses this to predict their reasoning .	which of the following game theory concepts is not involved in the puzzle ?	which of the following game theory concepts is not involved in the puzzle ?
maybe that 's why we toss these punctuation marks around like grammatical confetti . we 're confused about how to use them properly . in fact , it 's the semicolon 's half-half status that makes it useful .	why do we use semicolons if we could just use commas and periods ? what advantage do they offer ? give an example of your own .	why do we use semicolons if we could just use commas and periods ? what advantage do they offer ? give an example of your own .
ocd sufferers report feeling crazy for experiencing anxiety based on irrational thoughts and finding it difficult to control their responses . so what exactly causes ocd ? the frustrating answer is we do n't really know .	which of the following are treatment options for ocd ?	which of the following are treatment options for ocd ?
ocd sufferers report feeling crazy for experiencing anxiety based on irrational thoughts and finding it difficult to control their responses . so what exactly causes ocd ? the frustrating answer is we do n't really know .	which of the following chemicals has been the most implicated in ocd ?	which of the following chemicals has been the most implicated in ocd ?
ocd sufferers report feeling crazy for experiencing anxiety based on irrational thoughts and finding it difficult to control their responses . so what exactly causes ocd ? the frustrating answer is we do n't really know .	what role can family members play in the progression of ocd symptoms ? what role can they play in the treatment of individuals with ocd ?	what role can family members play in the progression of ocd symptoms ? what role can they play in the treatment of individuals with ocd ?
ocd sufferers report feeling crazy for experiencing anxiety based on irrational thoughts and finding it difficult to control their responses . so what exactly causes ocd ? the frustrating answer is we do n't really know .	in what ways does ocd affect school-aged youth ? how can you incorporate treatment into the school setting ?	in what ways does ocd affect school-aged youth ? how can you incorporate treatment into the school setting ?
this trait not only transforms insects , but also helps them maximize the available resources in an ecosystem . take butterflies . in their larval caterpillar form , they chomp hungrily through leaves at a rapid rate to help them grow and spin cocoons .	which of the following contribute to the success of insects ? mark all that apply . 1 ) quick reproduction 2 ) large numbers of offspring 3 ) small size to take advantage of small habitats 4 ) adults and offspring sharing the same food sources 5 ) ability to live in diverse habitats	which of the following contribute to the success of insects ? mark all that apply . 1 ) quick reproduction 2 ) large numbers of offspring 3 ) small size to take advantage of small habitats 4 ) adults and offspring sharing the same food sources 5 ) ability to live in diverse habitats
but those 10 trillion cells are n't just sitting there in a big pile . that would make for a pretty boring human being ! so what is it that says a nose is a nose , and toes is toes ?	how many chromosomes does the human genome contain ?	how many chromosomes does the human genome contain ?
add in some physical activity and digestion , and you arrive at the official guidelines for how many calories the average person requires each day : 2000 for women and 2500 for men . those estimates are based on factors like average weight , physical activity and muscle mass . so does that mean everyone should shoot for around 2000 calories ?	calorie estimates for people are based on :	calorie estimates for people are based on :
the cerebellum 's a little cauliflower-shaped area in the back of your head , but do n't let its size fool you . that little guy contains almost half of the neurons in the entire brain . patients who suffer degeneration from this region , something called spino-cerebellar ataxia , show a lack of coordination that results in stiff legs , wide stance , and a lumbering walk .	the cerebellum contains how many of the neurons in the entire brain ?	the cerebellum contains how many of the neurons in the entire brain ?
there is activist journalism , humanitarian journalism , peace journalism , and we are all looking to cover the important stories of our time . so we are going to ngos and asking them if we can embed in their projects . this is in part because they are doing important work in interesting places .	according to dodson , how do ngo ’ s and researchers benefit from having reporters embed with their projects ?	according to dodson , how do ngo ’ s and researchers benefit from having reporters embed with their projects ?
this process releases energy from the hydrogen , making the star shine . over many millions of years , fusion transforms hydrogen into heavier elements : helium , carbon , and oxygen , burning subsequent elements faster and faster to reach iron and nickel . however , at that point nuclear fusion no longer releases enough energy , and the pressure from the core peters out .	how are the heaviest elements made ?	how are the heaviest elements made ?
although this cycle appears to move by clockwork , there 's room for variation . women and their bodies are unique , after all . menstrual cycles occur at diffferent times in the month , ovulation comes at various points in the cycle , and some periods last longer than others .	why do you think women 's periods vary so much ?	why do you think women 's periods vary so much ?
for light-skin people , that extra melanin darkens their skin and produces a tan . over the course of generations , humans living at the sun-saturated latitudes in africa adapted to have a higher melanin production threshold and more eumelanin , giving skin a darker tone . this built-in sun shield helped protect them from melanoma , likely making them evolutionarily fitter and capable of passing this useful trait on to new generations .	in what other places , besides central africa , can people with a high eumelanin content be found living today ?	in what other places , besides central africa , can people with a high eumelanin content be found living today ?
for light-skin people , that extra melanin darkens their skin and produces a tan . over the course of generations , humans living at the sun-saturated latitudes in africa adapted to have a higher melanin production threshold and more eumelanin , giving skin a darker tone . this built-in sun shield helped protect them from melanoma , likely making them evolutionarily fitter and capable of passing this useful trait on to new generations .	if early humans were able to adapt to living in less sun-saturated climates after leaving africa , explain how modern humans with less eumelanin could adapt to living in sun-saturated climates after leaving europe and asia today ?	if early humans were able to adapt to living in less sun-saturated climates after leaving africa , explain how modern humans with less eumelanin could adapt to living in sun-saturated climates after leaving europe and asia today ?
mysteries of vernacular : gorgeous , beautiful or very attractive . the source of the word gorgeous can be found in the latin word , gurges , used by the romans to describe a whirling , swirling whirlpool .	who wears wimples today ?	who wears wimples today ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar when we think about learning , we often picture students in a classroom or lecture hall , books open on their desks , listening intently to a teacher or professor in the front of the room . but in psychology , learning means something else . to psychologists , learning is a long-term change in behavior that 's based on experience . two of the main types of learning are called classical conditioning and operant , or instrumental , conditioning .	to psychologists , learning is :	to psychologists , learning is :
because olfaction is more primal than other senses , bypassing the thalamus to connect directly to the brain structures involving emotion and instinct , we might even say a dog 's perception is more immediate and visceral than ours . but the most amazing thing about your dog 's nose is that it can traverse time . the past appears in tracks left by passersby , and by the warmth of a recently parked car where the residue of where you 've been and what you 've done recently .	the slits in the side of the dog 's nose are essential because _____ .	the slits in the side of the dog 's nose are essential because _____ .
because olfaction is more primal than other senses , bypassing the thalamus to connect directly to the brain structures involving emotion and instinct , we might even say a dog 's perception is more immediate and visceral than ours . but the most amazing thing about your dog 's nose is that it can traverse time . the past appears in tracks left by passersby , and by the warmth of a recently parked car where the residue of where you 've been and what you 've done recently .	explain this statement : a dog 's nose can traverse time .	explain this statement : a dog 's nose can traverse time .
to understand this , you have to understand a little bit about biology , in particular , about how humans see color . light perception happens in a paper-thin layer of cells , called the retina , that covers the back of your eyeball . in the retina , there are two different types of light-detecting cells : rods and cones .	light perception happens in a paper thin layer of cells called the _________ .	light perception happens in a paper thin layer of cells called the _________ .
but what about changes over a longer period of time , like a few million years ? obviously , the earth was a drastically different place , but it makes me wonder : could you , a modern human , survive on earth 2.5 million years ago ? to start off , let ’ s talk about the environment .	describe how different the environment was 2.5 million years ago .	describe how different the environment was 2.5 million years ago .
ear canals are warm and dark , the perfect home for a creepy-crawly like this one . the important thing to remember is that even if an earwig found its way into your ear , it would never eat through your eardrum . despite the erroneous origins of these trumped-up folk tales , they 've been in place a long time .	even if an earwig found its way into your ear , it would never :	even if an earwig found its way into your ear , it would never :
and it wo n't surprise you to learn that the answer is pretty dangerous . and in fact , in 1918 , new york city issued a report admitting that smart poisoners could operate with impunity in the city . this is a 1918 crime scene photo from brooklyn , and at this time , the coroner system was so corrupt that you could literally buy your cause of death .	in 1918 , new york city issued a report saying that smart poisoners could operate with ______ in the city .	in 1918 , new york city issued a report saying that smart poisoners could operate with ______ in the city .
the story here begins with an observation made in the 1930s in the emergency room . doctors noticed that patients with nerve damage to their hands did not get pruney fingertips like most of us do in a bath , which might make you wonder , `` why would primates want wrinkly fingers , presumably when it 's rainy or dewy ? '' what could this trait be for ?	what advantage might pruney fingers have for primates ?	what advantage might pruney fingers have for primates ?
you read it backwards , you 'll catch all of them . alright , let 's go on to this problem , an interesting problem . `` bacteria that double every 24 hours fill a lake it has infested after precisely 60 days .	have you ever played chess ? if so , did you find that you had to employ problem solving skills ? if not , tell about another situation ( a game or a homework assignment , for example ) where you had to use your problem solving skills to succeed .	have you ever played chess ? if so , did you find that you had to employ problem solving skills ? if not , tell about another situation ( a game or a homework assignment , for example ) where you had to use your problem solving skills to succeed .
so , if a molecule is willing to give up a proton , that 's not too different from it being willing to accept an electron -- either way it 's becoming more negatively charged . other molecules are willing to accept a proton or give up an electron . these are becoming more positively charged .	why is donating a proton not very different from accepting an electron ? at about 1:20 , we show the picture for hydrochloric acid . draw equivalent pictures for acetic acid and ammonia . in each case , show the donated ( or accepted ) proton ( or electron ) .	why is donating a proton not very different from accepting an electron ? at about 1:20 , we show the picture for hydrochloric acid . draw equivalent pictures for acetic acid and ammonia . in each case , show the donated ( or accepted ) proton ( or electron ) .
why do so may innocent people and animals suffer terrible things ? is there really a plan for my life ? is the future yet to be written , or is it already written and we just ca n't see it ?	one of the questions anderson poses concerns predestination : “ is there a plan for my life ? ” is that idea comforting or disturbing ?	one of the questions anderson poses concerns predestination : “ is there a plan for my life ? ” is that idea comforting or disturbing ?
but one of the major factors contributing to memory consolidation is , you guessed it , a good night 's sleep . sleep is composed of four stages , the deepest of which are known as slow-wave sleep and rapid eye movement . eeg machines monitoring people during these stages have shown electrical impulses moving between the brainstem , hippocampus , thalamus , and cortex , which serve as relay stations of memory formation .	which of the following is correct with regards to sleep ?	which of the following is correct with regards to sleep ?
scientists now know that this is an early step in triggering the process of atherosclerosis or cholesterol plaque build up in your arteries . together , these changes increase your chances of a heart attack or stroke . when your brain senses stress , it activates your autonomic nervous system .	stress can increase your risk of a heart attack or stroke by all of the following except :	stress can increase your risk of a heart attack or stroke by all of the following except :
when we sniff , odor molecules are sucked up into our nostrils until they hit this tissue where they combine to our olfactory , or scent , receptors . when we inhale normally , only a little air makes it there . but one or two solid sharp sniffs will ensure that more air gets to your smell receptors .	you want to become better at smelling . practice makes perfect . explain .	you want to become better at smelling . practice makes perfect . explain .
in line 1 , we initialize n to zero . as before , line 3 does n't execute at all since there are n't any pairs of people in the room , and so , n remains zero , which indeed matches the number of people in the room . but what if there are 3 people in the room ? how does this algorithm fair ? let 's see .	if there are 6 people in the room , how many times does line 3 of our final algorithm execute ?	if there are 6 people in the room , how many times does line 3 of our final algorithm execute ?
in line 1 , we initialize n to zero . as before , line 3 does n't execute at all since there are n't any pairs of people in the room , and so , n remains zero , which indeed matches the number of people in the room . but what if there are 3 people in the room ? how does this algorithm fair ? let 's see .	if there are 99 people in the room , how many times does line 5 of our final algorithm execute ?	if there are 99 people in the room , how many times does line 5 of our final algorithm execute ?
given that our estimate of the population includes children and adults , we 'll go with the latter estimate , which estimates that there are approximately 10 to the fourth , or 10,000 pianos , in chicago . with this many pianos , how many piano tuners are there ? we could begin the process of thinking about how often the pianos are tuned , how many pianos are tuned in one day , or how many days a piano tuner works , but that 's not the point of rapid estimation .	the ability to make accurate estimations is a powerful tool , and working through fermi questions is an excellent way to improve your skill . here are a few to get you started : how many basketballs would fit inside the empire state building ? how many drops of water are there in lake erie ? how many gas stations are there in the united states ?	the ability to make accurate estimations is a powerful tool , and working through fermi questions is an excellent way to improve your skill . here are a few to get you started : how many basketballs would fit inside the empire state building ? how many drops of water are there in lake erie ? how many gas stations are there in the united states ?
if the tumor is slow-growing and in one place , surgery might be all you need , if anything . if the tumor is fast-growing or invading nearby tissue , your doctor might recommend radiation or surgery followed by radiation . if the cancer has spread , or if it 's inherently everywhere like a leukemia , your doctor will most likely recommend chemotherapy or a combination of radiation and chemo .	why are chemotherapy and radiation dangerous ?	why are chemotherapy and radiation dangerous ?
let 's back up a bit . what is a genome ? well , a genome is all the genes plus some extra that make up an organism .	if every letter in the genome were the size of a marble ( diameter 15mm ) , a genome-sized collection of marbles would fill ________ .	if every letter in the genome were the size of a marble ( diameter 15mm ) , a genome-sized collection of marbles would fill ________ .
let 's back up a bit . what is a genome ? well , a genome is all the genes plus some extra that make up an organism .	when sequencing a genome , how do scientists deal with the problem of how big the genome is ?	when sequencing a genome , how do scientists deal with the problem of how big the genome is ?
so this is the elemental vanadium and as you can see it is about 0.1 mm in diameter and there is 20 metres of it on this reel . some of its compounds are very reactive . i can remember that my lab mate paul was working with a compound called vanadium hexacarbonyl . he got a sample it was quite expensive , and he poured it , it came in a sealed glass vessel so he cut open the glass and poured it out and before his eyes it burst into flames and disappeared .	what is the property of vanadium compounds that the professor wanted to illustrate with the example of vanadium hexacarbonyl ?	what is the property of vanadium compounds that the professor wanted to illustrate with the example of vanadium hexacarbonyl ?
so i am going to pour a small amount of manganese out , so that we can have a closer look . one of the main uses of manganese at the moment is as a catalyst for making the plastic which you find in plastic water bottles . you can see my big display of water bottles up there .	what is one of the main industrial uses of manganese , as the professor described by showing us a product that is seen every day ?	what is one of the main industrial uses of manganese , as the professor described by showing us a product that is seen every day ?
this does n't usually happen to us because our cells are constantly reinforcing and building bone wherever they 're used , a principle we refer to as wolff 's law . however , bone materials are a limited resource and this new , reinforcing bone can be formed only if there is enough material present . fortunately , osteoblasts , the builders , have a counterpart called osteoclasts , the recyclers .	which cells build/generate new bone tissue ?	which cells build/generate new bone tissue ?
it is affected by gravity , but it is invisible to visible light and all other forms of electromagnetic radiation . the name `` dark matter '' originates in this form of matter 's inability to emit or absorb light . dark matter adds to the gravity of the galaxy and explains the orbital speed of stars far from the galactic center .	dark matter appears to be about five times more common than the familiar form of matter that makes up you and me . when dark energy ( which is another component of the universe ) is taken into consideration , our regular form of matter comprises a mere 5 % of energy and matter in the universe . how do you feel about so much of the universe being comprised of matter that we have never directly observed ?	dark matter appears to be about five times more common than the familiar form of matter that makes up you and me . when dark energy ( which is another component of the universe ) is taken into consideration , our regular form of matter comprises a mere 5 % of energy and matter in the universe . how do you feel about so much of the universe being comprised of matter that we have never directly observed ?
`` all men are created equal and they are endowed with the rights to life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . '' not so fast , mr. jefferson ! these words from the declaration of independence , and the facts behind them , are well known .	as the lesson points out , jefferson used the work of other writers . who were some of the important men who influenced jefferson ’ s ideas ?	as the lesson points out , jefferson used the work of other writers . who were some of the important men who influenced jefferson ’ s ideas ?
d2 : this is kind of a hard one , because we do n't really have any biological definitions for emotions like anger . sure , brain imaging studies have shown that some brain regions are more active when people are angry , but these are almost always correlational . when it 's warmer outside , people wear less clothing , but if i strip down to my birthday suit , it does n't make it sunny .	when trying to understand brain-behavior links what are the advantages and disadvantages of correlational ( e.g. , brain imaging ) and causal ( e.g. , brain lesion ) methods respectively ? what does it really mean for a brain area to be active during a particular task ? what might we miss when trying to characterize behavioral changes in patient populations ?	when trying to understand brain-behavior links what are the advantages and disadvantages of correlational ( e.g. , brain imaging ) and causal ( e.g. , brain lesion ) methods respectively ? what does it really mean for a brain area to be active during a particular task ? what might we miss when trying to characterize behavioral changes in patient populations ?
d2 : this is kind of a hard one , because we do n't really have any biological definitions for emotions like anger . sure , brain imaging studies have shown that some brain regions are more active when people are angry , but these are almost always correlational . when it 's warmer outside , people wear less clothing , but if i strip down to my birthday suit , it does n't make it sunny .	studies showing that convicted criminals have more activity in brain areas that are typically engaged when people are angry suggests that :	studies showing that convicted criminals have more activity in brain areas that are typically engaged when people are angry suggests that :
like her famous poem that begins `` i heard a fly buzz when i died '' ends with the line `` i could not see to see '' associating the lack of sight , with death itself . dickinson also often played with the fact that this `` i '' and this `` eye '' sound the same . her poem beginning , `` before i got my eye put out '' is about death , for instance , not just monocularizaton .	dickinson often makes references to `` eyes '' and `` sight '' . which of the following do these references most likely not symbolize .	dickinson often makes references to `` eyes '' and `` sight '' . which of the following do these references most likely not symbolize .
audience : cool ! ( applause ) danit peleg : thank you , rebecca . ( to audience ) thank you , guys .	what were some of the challenges that danit peleg came across when trying to 3d print her own fashion ?	what were some of the challenges that danit peleg came across when trying to 3d print her own fashion ?
audience : cool ! ( applause ) danit peleg : thank you , rebecca . ( to audience ) thank you , guys .	what are some personality traits that danit peleg has that allowed her to be successful ? choose three and cite evidence for these traits from her talk .	what are some personality traits that danit peleg has that allowed her to be successful ? choose three and cite evidence for these traits from her talk .
my mind wandered , just for half a second , but that half-second was filled with a lifetime of memories , and two decisions that brought me here to the top of the mountain . i made the first decision after a very challenging period in my career as an athlete -- five years of recurring injuries as a track athlete . five years -- that 's a long time to dedicate to anything .	how many years did mesler incur injuries as a track athlete ?	how many years did mesler incur injuries as a track athlete ?
my mind wandered , just for half a second , but that half-second was filled with a lifetime of memories , and two decisions that brought me here to the top of the mountain . i made the first decision after a very challenging period in my career as an athlete -- five years of recurring injuries as a track athlete . five years -- that 's a long time to dedicate to anything .	what kind of athlete did mesler ’ s old coach compare him to ?	what kind of athlete did mesler ’ s old coach compare him to ?
one of the main goals is to really trigger samples , tracks , or clips and kind of create this long journey . i 'm going to do another little example for you guys right now of what djs call a `` mashup , '' which is taking two or more tracks and combining them into one . this mashup was made famous by a hungarian duo myon & amp ; amp ; shane 54 , and it takes the vocals from krewella 's `` alive . '' how many of you guys know that song ?	what is a mashup ?	what is a mashup ?
his vision , uncluttered by speculation or rationalization , went deep . steno had seen how gallstones form in wet organs by accretion . they obeyed molding principles he knew from the goldsmith trade , rules useful across disciplines for understanding solids by their structural relationships . later , the grand duke of tuscany had him dissect a shark .	which principle did steno apply across disciplines ?	which principle did steno apply across disciplines ?
when you do that , the bones move away from each other . the space between bones gets bigger , but the amount of synovial fluid stays constant . that creates a low-pressure zone that pulls dissolved gases out of the synovial fluid , just like the carbon dioxide that fizzes out of soda when you twist open the cap .	what feature of synovial fluid is responsible for the joint 's popping ?	what feature of synovial fluid is responsible for the joint 's popping ?
however thulium , as well as being able to obtain the plus-3 oxidation state , it is also one of those ones which can obtain the plus-2 oxidation state , which means that chemists are now beginning to find uses for it which they hadn ’ t expected before . so you may see the use of thulium increase in years to come . because it ’ s very hard to isolate because it ’ s of a very similar size to its neighbours , it took a guy called charles james , in 1911 , a famous 15,000 times of recrystalization to isolate thulium in a pure , albeit as a chloride , but a pure nonetheless , compound for the first time .	regarding its oxidation states , why is the use of thulium likely to increase in years to come ?	regarding its oxidation states , why is the use of thulium likely to increase in years to come ?
i think if it was n't for football… i ca n't really imagine myself without football . certain things , certain principles in my life are based on my football . i do n't know if you understand what i mean .	“ there are certain principles in my life that are based on my fútbol , ” says titie , the young woman featured in the film . what principles do you think she is referring to ?	“ there are certain principles in my life that are based on my fútbol , ” says titie , the young woman featured in the film . what principles do you think she is referring to ?
they react and use energy slowly so they can work for longer periods . a sprinter will accumulate more fast-twitch muscles in her legs through continuous practice , enabling her to quickly , if briefly , pick up the pace , whereas back muscles contain more slow-twitch muscles to maintain your posture all day . unlike the skeletal muscles , the body 's cardiac and smooth muscles are managed by the autonomic nervous system beyond our direct control .	describe the functional difference between fast and slow twitch muscles .	describe the functional difference between fast and slow twitch muscles .
if you like your cookies to have a nice tan , crank up the heat . caramelization continues up to 390 degrees . and here 's another trick : you do n't need that kitchen timer ; your nose is a sensitive scientific instrument .	at what temperature does caramelization begin ?	at what temperature does caramelization begin ?
to build something of this scale , only for that to sink on its maiden voyage ? well , let 's just say that failure would n't have been a pleasant option for archimedes . so he took on the problem : will it sink ?	how would archimedes ’ life have been different if the syracusia had sunk ?	how would archimedes ’ life have been different if the syracusia had sunk ?
her fearlessness in the face of the unknown proved that she was more than his equal . cupid gave psyche amborsia , the nectar of the gods , making her immortal . shortly after , psyche bore their daughter . they named her pleasure , and she , cupid , and psyche , whose name means soul , have been complicating people 's love lives ever since .	cupid and psyche name their daughter :	cupid and psyche name their daughter :
now , i must warn you , depending on which thought germs live in your head and which you fight for , the next section might sound *horrifying* . so please keep in mind , we 're going to talk about what makes some thought germs , particularly angry ones , successful and not how good or bad they are . ok ?	what does the internet allow you to do to `` angry thought germs '' that makes them both more spreadable and more dangerous/unreliable ?	what does the internet allow you to do to `` angry thought germs '' that makes them both more spreadable and more dangerous/unreliable ?
what made the students so sure this dummy drug had worked ? the answer lies in the placebo effect , an unexplained phenomenon wherein drugs , treatments , and therapies that are n't supposed to have an effect , and are often fake , miraculously make people feel better . doctors have used the term placebo since the 1700s when they realized the power of fake drugs to improve people 's symptoms .	what is the placebo effect ?	what is the placebo effect ?
the tiny variations are what makes each person different . it 's estimated that all the chapters together hold about 20,000 individual instructions , called genes . written out , all those 20,000 instructions are 30 million letters long !	it 's estimated that all the chromosomes together house about 20,000 individual instructions called :	it 's estimated that all the chromosomes together house about 20,000 individual instructions called :
all of these different combinations let you detect a staggeringly broad array of smells . olfactory neurons are always fresh and ready for action . they 're the only neuron in the body that gets replaced regularly , every four to eight weeks .	olfactory neurons are the only neurons that are replaced on a regular basis .	olfactory neurons are the only neurons that are replaced on a regular basis .
but after the us abolished this system in 1971 , the dollar became what is known as fiat money , meaning not linked to any external resource but relying instead solely on government policy to decide how much currency to print . which branch of our government sets this policy ? the executive , the legislative , or the judicial ?	should the government encourage people to own their own homes , even if they have to go into debt to do that ?	should the government encourage people to own their own homes , even if they have to go into debt to do that ?
but after the us abolished this system in 1971 , the dollar became what is known as fiat money , meaning not linked to any external resource but relying instead solely on government policy to decide how much currency to print . which branch of our government sets this policy ? the executive , the legislative , or the judicial ?	which branch of government decides how much money will be in circulation in our economy ?	which branch of government decides how much money will be in circulation in our economy ?
at this point , they are an asylum seeker and not officially recognized as a refugee until the application has been accepted . while countries by and large agree on one definition of refugee , every host country is responsible for examining all requests for asylum and deciding whether applicants can be granted the status of refugee . different countries guidelines can vary substantially .	according to the international legal definition , a refugee is someone who :	according to the international legal definition , a refugee is someone who :
ok -- ( applause ) but there 's one weird side effect . every time we send out a text message , we get back a few dozen text messages having nothing to do with peanut butter or hunger or senior citizens -- but text messages about being bullied , text messages about being addicted to pot . and the worst message we ever got said exactly this : `` he wo n't stop raping me .	when might it be more likely that someone sends a text to an anonymous tip line rather than making a phone call or reporting something in person ?	when might it be more likely that someone sends a text to an anonymous tip line rather than making a phone call or reporting something in person ?
ok -- ( applause ) but there 's one weird side effect . every time we send out a text message , we get back a few dozen text messages having nothing to do with peanut butter or hunger or senior citizens -- but text messages about being bullied , text messages about being addicted to pot . and the worst message we ever got said exactly this : `` he wo n't stop raping me .	lublin talks about statistical trends her team can track based on words use in a text . how can this kind of analysis help the community as a whole ?	lublin talks about statistical trends her team can track based on words use in a text . how can this kind of analysis help the community as a whole ?
the goal in treating ppa is to maintain language function for as long as possible before other symptoms of dementia eventually occur . however , when aphasia is acquired from a stroke or brain trauma , language improvement may be achieved through speech therapy . our brain 's ability to repair itself , known as brain plasticity , permits areas surrounding a brain lesion to take over some functions during the recovery process . scientists have been conducting experiments using new forms of technology , which they believe may encourage brain plasticity in people with aphasia . meanwhile , many people with aphasia remain isolated , afraid that others wo n't understand them or give them extra time to speak .	two things that may encourage brain plasticity are :	two things that may encourage brain plasticity are :
old english speakers cut otches into wood . but after centuries of being asked to cut an otch into something , it was easy to think you were cutting a notch instead , and pretty soon you were . in a world where almost no one could read , it was easier for what people heard to become , after awhile , what it started to actually be .	if language changed so much in the past , then why do you think we tend to think of changes in the language today as slang or mistakes ?	if language changed so much in the past , then why do you think we tend to think of changes in the language today as slang or mistakes ?
these improvements can be expensive , so managers must decide what the acceptable uncertainty for each project is . however , investments in precision can take us beyond what was previously possible , even as far as mars . it may surprise you that nasa does not know exactly where their probes are going to touch down on another planet .	you are measuring length with a meter stick . however , you do not realize that the first 4.0 centimeters of the meter stick are missing because a hungry beaver made a snack of it earlier that day . the measurements you take with the meter stick will be :	you are measuring length with a meter stick . however , you do not realize that the first 4.0 centimeters of the meter stick are missing because a hungry beaver made a snack of it earlier that day . the measurements you take with the meter stick will be :
many dog owners commit to managing their dogs ' diabetes with insulin injected twice daily , regimented feedings , and periodic blood measurements using the same home-testing glucose monitors used by human patients . and if the purified pig insulin commonly used for dogs fails to work for a particular dog , the vet may even turn to a formulation of human insulin , bringing the process full circle . after all that dogs have done for us throughout the ages , including their role in a medical discovery that has saved countless human lives , using that same knowledge to help them is the least we could do .	today , when diabetic dogs can not be successfully treated with pig insulin , veterinarians may then treat them with ____ insulin .	today , when diabetic dogs can not be successfully treated with pig insulin , veterinarians may then treat them with ____ insulin .
they tell us that ecosystems that have lost just one or two species of large animals can behave in radically different ways from those that retain them . all over the world , new movements are trying to catalyze the restoration of nature in a process called rewilding . this means undoing some of the damage we 've caused , reestablishing species which have been driven out , and then stepping back .	the mass restoration of the natural world is widely known as :	the mass restoration of the natural world is widely known as :
all you need to find them is a little patience and a microscope . scientists are now to trying to find out whether tardigrades use the tun state , their anti-drying technique , to survive other stresses . if we can understand how they , and other creatures , stabilize their sensitive biological molecules , perhaps we could apply this knowledge to help us stabilize vaccines , or to develop stress-tolerant crops that can cope with earth 's changing climate .	tardigrades survive several different kinds of extreme environments . do you think they use the same protective strategies for all of these ?	tardigrades survive several different kinds of extreme environments . do you think they use the same protective strategies for all of these ?
if you 've watched the news or followed politics chances are you 've heard the term orwellian thrown around in one context or another . but have you ever stopped to think about what it really means , or why it 's used so often ?	who is the protagonist of nineteen eighty-four ?	who is the protagonist of nineteen eighty-four ?
so neil ’ s got a sample of sodium . sodium is a very reactive metal , it is stored under an oil to stop air or moisture getting on it - stop it oxidising , stop it reacting - and as you can see it is a very soft metal , so he is going to put his knife in and withdraw the lump of sodium , so there is about 2 kilos of sodium here , it 's a really quite large rod .	to prevent air or moisture from getting to to the sample and causing a violent reaction between sodium and water , neil stored the sodium sample under oil . which of these gases could be safely used to replace the oil and store sodium ?	to prevent air or moisture from getting to to the sample and causing a violent reaction between sodium and water , neil stored the sodium sample under oil . which of these gases could be safely used to replace the oil and store sodium ?
so neil ’ s got a sample of sodium . sodium is a very reactive metal , it is stored under an oil to stop air or moisture getting on it - stop it oxidising , stop it reacting - and as you can see it is a very soft metal , so he is going to put his knife in and withdraw the lump of sodium , so there is about 2 kilos of sodium here , it 's a really quite large rod .	sodium is a shiny material , but on the surface of the sample we can observe a white crust . what is this crust ?	sodium is a shiny material , but on the surface of the sample we can observe a white crust . what is this crust ?
so let 's go one more floor down . when we draw out the rooms , low and behold , we can find an arrangement that works like this . incidentally , the study of such visual models that show the connections and relationships between different objects is known as graph theory . in a basic graph , the circles representing the objects are known as nodes , while the connecting lines are called edges . researchers studying such graphs ask questions like , `` how far is this node from that one ? '' `` how many edges does the most popular node have ? '' `` is there a route between these two nodes , and if so , how long is it ? '' graphs like this are often used to map communication networks , but they can represent almost any kind of network , from transport connections within a city and social relationships among people , to chemical interactions between proteins or the spread of an epidemic through different locations . so , armed with these techniques , back to the pyramid .	the solution to this puzzle made strong use of the idea of a graph or a network . draw yourself as a node and label your friends as other nodes . then label their friends . now draw all friend connections . which of your second degree friends ( a friend of a friend who is not a direct friend ) has the most friends among your first degree friends ?	the solution to this puzzle made strong use of the idea of a graph or a network . draw yourself as a node and label your friends as other nodes . then label their friends . now draw all friend connections . which of your second degree friends ( a friend of a friend who is not a direct friend ) has the most friends among your first degree friends ?
deciphering these directions would be a monumental task but could offer unprecedented insight about the human body . in 1990 , a consortium of 20 international research centers embarked on the world 's largest biological collaboration to accomplish this mission . the human genome project proposed to sequence the entire human genome over 15 years with $ 3 billion of public funds . then , seven years before its scheduled completion , a private company called celera announced that they could accomplish the same goal in just three years and at a fraction of the cost .	more than 20 research centers contributed to the human genome project -- what are some challenges and benefits associated with collaborating with so many partners ?	more than 20 research centers contributed to the human genome project -- what are some challenges and benefits associated with collaborating with so many partners ?
pepper became a key commodity in the spice trade stretching between asia and europe , where its main use like other pungent spices was to mask the flavor of meat that was , shall we say , past its prime . the extreme distances involved in trading pepper across the known world translated into extreme prices . to inflate them further arab traders invented a myth that pepper gardens were guarded by serpents which had to be chased away with fire before a harvest . who would n't want to put magic snake powder on their food .	why did pepper merchants create a myth that pepper gardens were guarded by snakes ?	why did pepper merchants create a myth that pepper gardens were guarded by snakes ?
each time ovulation does n't result in a healthy pregnancy , the womb gets rid of its endometrial lining , along with any unfertilized eggs , sick , dying , or dead embryos . that protective process is known as menstruation , leading to the period . this biological trait , bizarre as it may be , sets us on course for the continuation of the human race .	explain this statement : menstruation is a protective mechanism for the female .	explain this statement : menstruation is a protective mechanism for the female .
the problem is to remain an artist as we grow up . i believe this passionately , that we do n't grow into creativity , we grow out of it . or rather , we get educated out of it .	what do you think sir ken means when he says that we do n't grow into creativity , we grow out of it ?	what do you think sir ken means when he says that we do n't grow into creativity , we grow out of it ?
you would have to go to the record shop and buy cds , but now you can just download the music -- digital music -- directly to your phone . fashion is also a very physical thing . and i wonder what our world will look like when our clothes will be digital , just like this skirt is .	the speaker describes fashion as a “ physical process. ” explain .	the speaker describes fashion as a “ physical process. ” explain .
though the ancient texts there were regarded by some as irrelevant relics of the past , confucius was inspired by them . through study and reflection , confucius came to believe that human character is formed in the family and by education in ritual , literature , and history . a person cultivated in this way works to help others , guiding them by moral inspiration rather than brute force .	people in confucius 's time disagreed about the value of studying literature and history . is this similar to current debates over the value of an education in the humanities and liberal arts ?	people in confucius 's time disagreed about the value of studying literature and history . is this similar to current debates over the value of an education in the humanities and liberal arts ?
if you can find one way in which the elements of two sets do match up , then we say those two sets have the same number of elements . can you make a list of all the fractions ? this might be hard , there are a lot of fractions !	in the lesson we showed how to match the positive whole numbers to the set of all positive fractions , or , in other words , how to make a list of all the positive fractions . with the method shown , what is the 19th fraction on the list ?	in the lesson we showed how to match the positive whole numbers to the set of all positive fractions , or , in other words , how to make a list of all the positive fractions . with the method shown , what is the 19th fraction on the list ?
the lab is a four by four compound of 16 rooms with an entrance on the northwest corner and an exit at the southeast . each room is connected to the adjacent ones by an airlock , and the virus has been released in every room except the entrance . to destroy it , you must enter each contaminated room and pull its emergency self-destruct switch .	in which room has the virus not been released ?	in which room has the virus not been released ?
the lab is a four by four compound of 16 rooms with an entrance on the northwest corner and an exit at the southeast . each room is connected to the adjacent ones by an airlock , and the virus has been released in every room except the entrance . to destroy it , you must enter each contaminated room and pull its emergency self-destruct switch .	what is significant about the fact that the virus has not been released in the entrance ?	what is significant about the fact that the virus has not been released in the entrance ?
they were both epic failures . the more famous of which was the colony of roanoke island set up by sir walter raleigh , which is famous because all the colonists disappeared leaving only the word `` croatoan '' on carved into a tree . jamestown was a project of the virginia company , which existed to make money for its investors , something it never did .	which colony was set up by sir walter riley ?	which colony was set up by sir walter riley ?
that creates our perception of time . in his cave , siffre made a fascinating additional discovery about this . every day , he challenged himself to count up to 120 at the rate of one digit per second . over time , instead of taking two minutes , it began taking him as long as five .	why do you think siffre took longer and longer to perceive 120 elapsed seconds as he got older ?	why do you think siffre took longer and longer to perceive 120 elapsed seconds as he got older ?
appreciating these differences and learning about this monthly process can empower women , giving them the tools to understand and take charge of their own bodies . that way , they 're able to factor this small cycle into a much larger cycle of life .	briefly outline the hormonal cycle that triggers menstruation .	briefly outline the hormonal cycle that triggers menstruation .
that allows it to intercept signals from other fish , judge distances , detect the shape and size of nearby objects , and even determine whether a buried insect is dead or alive . but the elephantnose and other weakly electric fish do n't produce enough electricity to attack their prey . that ability belongs to the strongly electric fish , of which there are only a handful of species .	electric fish use specialized cells to produce electricity . what are these called ?	electric fish use specialized cells to produce electricity . what are these called ?
tolkien charted out ancient and newer versions of elvish . when the first elves awoke at cuiviénen , in their new language , the word for `` people '' was `` kwendi , '' but in the language of one of the groups that moved away , teleri , over time , `` kwendi '' became `` pendi , '' with the `` k '' turning into a `` p. '' and just like real languages , conlangs like elvish split off into many . when the romans transplanted latin across europe , french , spanish , and italian were born .	the reason people is kwendi in cuivienen but pendi in teleri is	the reason people is kwendi in cuivienen but pendi in teleri is
fear is a powerful emotional experience , and anything that triggers a strong reaction is going to be stored in our memory really well . you do n't want to forget what can hurt you . so if your memory of watching a horror film with your friends is positive and left you with a sense of satisfaction , then you 'll want to do it over and over again .	we tend to easily forget scary experiences .	we tend to easily forget scary experiences .
at the equator , the earth is spinning at more than 1,000 mph . now , a spinning ice skater can speed up by moving mass closer to the center and the earth is no different . in fact , if you get down on the ground right now and move your mass closer to earth 's center , technically , you will speed up earth 's rotation , making this day shorter . now , the change that you would make to the earth 's rotation is way smaller than we could even measure , but it is calculable , and the impact can be quite impressive when you talk about redistributing more mass than just one person .	when the mass of an object moves closer to its center , does its rotation ...	when the mass of an object moves closer to its center , does its rotation ...
escher 's work demonstrates . and while the islamic geometric design tradition does n't tend to employ elements like fish and faces , it does sometimes make use of multiple shapes to craft complex patterns . this more than 1,000-year-old tradition has wielded basic geometry to produce works that are intricate , decorative and pleasing to the eye .	which two cultures influenced the early development of islamic geometric design ?	which two cultures influenced the early development of islamic geometric design ?
either of you could move your cart towards the other to sell more ice cream . with both of you now in the center of the beach , you ca n't reposition your cart closer to your furthest customers without making your current customers worse off . however , you no longer have a socially optimal solution , since customers at either end of the beach have to walk further than necessary to get a sweet treat . think about all the fast food chains , clothing boutiques , or mobile phone kiosks at the mall .	what is it called when most customers have to walk a minimal amount of steps to purchase a product ?	what is it called when most customers have to walk a minimal amount of steps to purchase a product ?
let 's start by finding the odds of failure , the chance that someone will need to open three or four boxes before they find their instrument . there are six distinct four-box loops . one fun way to count them is to make a square , put an instrument at each corner , and draw the diagonals .	suppose there are just 6 musicians . how many distinct 6 box loops are there ?	suppose there are just 6 musicians . how many distinct 6 box loops are there ?
that 's called conservation of angular momentum . now , rotational inertia can be thought of as a body 's resistance to rotational motion . it increases when more mass is distributed further from the axis of rotation , and decreases when the mass is distributed closer to the axis of rotation .	what is rotational inertia ?	what is rotational inertia ?
this is where we enter the quantum realm . every atom and molecule has a set number of possible energy levels for its electrons . to shift its electrons from the ground state to a higher level , a molecule needs to gain a certain amount of energy .	every atom and molecule has a set number of ________ .	every atom and molecule has a set number of ________ .
entropy favors keeping the square dance going at all times . there are always more ways that all the water molecules can arrange in a square dance , as compared to if the water molecules did a line dance . so , the square dance constantly goes on .	there are compounds similar to salt that do not dissolve in water . an example is calcium carbonate which is comprised of calcium and carbonate ions . can you build an explanation using the dance analogy from the video for why this substance does not dissolve in water ? ( hint : the ions are very attracted to water as is the water very attracted to the ions…but the stuff still doesn ’ t dissolve . ) after you have built your dance analogy explanation , try to build an explanation that doesn ’ t not use any analogies or personify the ions and molecules .	there are compounds similar to salt that do not dissolve in water . an example is calcium carbonate which is comprised of calcium and carbonate ions . can you build an explanation using the dance analogy from the video for why this substance does not dissolve in water ? ( hint : the ions are very attracted to water as is the water very attracted to the ions…but the stuff still doesn ’ t dissolve . ) after you have built your dance analogy explanation , try to build an explanation that doesn ’ t not use any analogies or personify the ions and molecules .
to make matters worse , the healed tissue contains a higher proportion of ecm than before , reducing its overall function . in the skin , the overabundance of collagen interferes with its original functions , like producing sweat , controlling body temperature and even growing hair . the scar tissue is fragile , sensitive to changes in temperature and sensation , and should be kept in moist environments to maximize healing .	imagine if the presence of scars didn ’ t disrupt any physiological or bodily functions . would it still be worth removing due to aesthetic reasons ?	imagine if the presence of scars didn ’ t disrupt any physiological or bodily functions . would it still be worth removing due to aesthetic reasons ?
einstein and his colleagues called this strange communcation spooky action at a distance . while it does seem that entanglement between two particles helps transfer a qubit instantaneously across the space between them , there 's a catch . this interaction must begin locally .	quantum entanglement reveals a correlation can exist between a pair of quantum particles that transcends space . what does this suggest about the structure of the space that separates the two entangled particles : are the particles truly separated by what we define to be distance ?	quantum entanglement reveals a correlation can exist between a pair of quantum particles that transcends space . what does this suggest about the structure of the space that separates the two entangled particles : are the particles truly separated by what we define to be distance ?
what do you do ? do you sacrifice one person to save five ? this is the trolley problem , a version of an ethical dilemma that philosopher philippa foot devised in 1967 .	the decision to flip the switch , sacrificing one worker to save five , is consistent with which philosophical principle ?	the decision to flip the switch , sacrificing one worker to save five , is consistent with which philosophical principle ?
in the laboratory , the identified eggs are stripped of surrounding cells and prepared for fertilization in a petri dish . fertilization can occur by one of two techniques . in the first , the eggs are incubated with thousands of sperm and fertilization occurs naturally over a few hours . the second technique maximizes certainty of fertilization by using a needle to place a single sperm inside the egg . this is particularly useful when there is a problem with the quality of the sperm .	when the male partner has poor sperm quality , _____ is used to assist in fertilization of the egg .	when the male partner has poor sperm quality , _____ is used to assist in fertilization of the egg .
the inability to smell a scent is called anosmia , and there are about 100 known examples . people with allicin anosmia ca n't smell garlic . those with eugenol anosmia ca n't smell cloves . and some people ca n't smell anything at all . this kind of full anosmia could have several causes .	many people who ca n't smell anything also ca n't ________ .	many people who ca n't smell anything also ca n't ________ .
they almost always say things that are n't true . if you say , `` there 's an elephant in the room , '' there is n't an actual one , looking for the peanut dish on the table . metaphors get under your skin by ghosting right past the logical mind .	`` an elephant in the room '' is a way of saying	`` an elephant in the room '' is a way of saying
increasing a building 's mass slows down the rate at which it naturally vibrates , while increasing stiffness makes it vibrate faster . so in the equation representing their relationship , stiffness and natural frequency are proportional to one another , while mass and natural frequency are inversely proportional . what happened in mexico city was an effect called resonance , where the frequency of the earthquake 's seismic waves happen to match the natural frequency of the midsized buildings . like a well-timed push on a swingset , each additional seismic wave amplified the building 's vibration in its current direction , causing it to swing even further back , and so on , eventually reaching a far greater extent than the initial displacement .	structural engineers consult with geologists to help predict the expected frequency of earthquake motions at a given site . they use this information to then make sure that buildings on that site do not have the same natural frequency as the expected earthquake input motions to avoid setting up resonance , in which the displacements of the building are amplified . what are some different strategies you might use to change the frequency of a building ? is it better to design buildings that are stiffer or more flexible ?	structural engineers consult with geologists to help predict the expected frequency of earthquake motions at a given site . they use this information to then make sure that buildings on that site do not have the same natural frequency as the expected earthquake input motions to avoid setting up resonance , in which the displacements of the building are amplified . what are some different strategies you might use to change the frequency of a building ? is it better to design buildings that are stiffer or more flexible ?
although most penguins lay a clutch of two eggs , the two largest species , the king and the emperor , lay a single egg that they incubate on top of their feet for approximately two months . unfortunately , 15 of the 18 penguin species are currently listed as threatened , near-threatened , or endangered by the international union for conservation of nature . in the last several decades , we have seen the world populations of most penguin species decline by up to 90 % , with two of them , the yellow-eyed and galapagos penguins , down to just a few thousand birds .	how many of the 18 penguin species are listed as near-threatened , threatened , or endangered ?	how many of the 18 penguin species are listed as near-threatened , threatened , or endangered ?
at the end of the day , epidemiological studies have served as excellent guides to public health , alerting us to critical health hazards , such as smoking , asbestos , lead , and many more . but these were demonstrated through multiple , well-conducted epidemiological studies , all pointing in the same direction . so , the next time you see a headline about a new miracle cure or the terrible danger posed by an everyday substance , try to learn more about the original study and the limitations inherent in any epidemiological study or clinical trial before jumping to conclusions .	data from multiple , well-conducted epidemiological studies pointing in the same direction can be quite informative about causes of human health risks .	data from multiple , well-conducted epidemiological studies pointing in the same direction can be quite informative about causes of human health risks .
so if i can do it , you can do it . '' and then she asked me the big question : `` okay , so what really leads to success ? '' i said , `` jeez , sorry .	when the girl on the plane asked me , `` what really leads to success ? '' she made me think and sparked my curiosity . that curiosity took me on an amazing 10-year journey that changed my life . wow , curiosity and questions are powerful stuff ! what are some questions you are curious about and want to answer ? what small steps could you take right now to start answering those questions ?	when the girl on the plane asked me , `` what really leads to success ? '' she made me think and sparked my curiosity . that curiosity took me on an amazing 10-year journey that changed my life . wow , curiosity and questions are powerful stuff ! what are some questions you are curious about and want to answer ? what small steps could you take right now to start answering those questions ?
so if i can do it , you can do it . '' and then she asked me the big question : `` okay , so what really leads to success ? '' i said , `` jeez , sorry .	what was the question i was asked ?	what was the question i was asked ?
since nobody agrees , it 's difficult to apply a research standard , something required in all other types of science to test the validity of ideas . observation # 3 : the point of science is to discover the unknown , and in the history of scientific investigation , it 's definitely happened that new discoveries have gone against established science , and even overturned whole branches of science . such discoveries must be proven extra carefully to withstand skepticism .	in science , it 's best to rely on _______ to prove a theory .	in science , it 's best to rely on _______ to prove a theory .
a mouse 's natural desire to avoid a cat makes it tough to close this loop . toxoplasma has a solution for that . the parasites invade white blood cells to hitch a ride to the brain where they seem to override the innate fear of predators .	which of the following are not symptoms of infection with toxoplasma ?	which of the following are not symptoms of infection with toxoplasma ?
and as you go down the periodic table , the size of the atom increases so it 's easier to remove the electron . so francium would almost certainly be even bigger than cesium , because it 's a whole row lower down . and so , that should react with water with enormous violence . but , unfortunately , francium is very radioactive and you ca n't get a nice lump of francium the sort of size that you 'd like to throw in water to make the youtube video of the century . francium was named after france , was discovered by one of madame curie 's pupils in 1939 , five years after madame curie herself died .	why didn ’ t we see pete throw a lump of francium in water , as we saw him do with the other alkaline metals ?	why didn ’ t we see pete throw a lump of francium in water , as we saw him do with the other alkaline metals ?
they ’ re also rogues -- instead of being all nestled together like in your other organ systems , these guys are scattered all over the place , from your brain to your throat , to your kidneys , to your genitals . a gland is a just any structure that makes and secretes a hormone . and the master gland in your body is the pituitary , which produces many hormones that signal other glands -- like the thyroid , parathyroid , adrenal , and pineal glands -- to make their own hormones . the endocrine system also includes a few organs -- like the gonads , the pancreas , and the placenta in pregnant women -- all of which have some other non-hormonal functions and are made up of multiple tissue types .	what is the master gland of the body ?	what is the master gland of the body ?
the mass is coming from somewhere quite different and that is because most of your mass and most of this mass comes from neutrons and protons and they are not fundamental particles . they are made of constituent particles called quarks . now the theory that describes quarks and their interactions with each other through gluons is called quantum chromo dynamics . and chromo is the greek word for color .	what is the name of the theory that describes how quarks interact to make up protons and neutrons ? ( video hint : 1:35 )	what is the name of the theory that describes how quarks interact to make up protons and neutrons ? ( video hint : 1:35 )
medium wavelength uvb rays can enter the skin 's superficial layers and long length uva rays can penetrate into the deeper layers . uvb in small amounts actually helps us make vitamin d , which enables our bodies to build and maintain strong bones . however , prolonged exposure to uva and uvb can damage dna , age your skin , and promote the development of potentially deadly skin cancer .	vitamin d is essential for good health . which form of ultraviolet radiation helps human cells produce it ?	vitamin d is essential for good health . which form of ultraviolet radiation helps human cells produce it ?
so , is mathematics an invention or a discovery ? artificial construct or universal truth ? human product or natural , possibly divine , creation ?	name at least one mathematical idea or principle that you feel is a universal truth . support your choice .	name at least one mathematical idea or principle that you feel is a universal truth . support your choice .
this area , called the sargasso sea , forms the western part of a subtropical gyre , a giant whirlpool in the middle of the ocean . our eel , let 's call it eli , would begin as one of ten to twenty million tiny eggs , carried by a female eel , hatching into a transparent leaf-shaped thing that looks nothing like an adult eel . eli starts to drift in ocean currents , predominantly the gulf stream towards either europe or north america , depending on its particular species .	how do you think global climate change could possibly affect eel migration in the sea and freshwater ?	how do you think global climate change could possibly affect eel migration in the sea and freshwater ?
by repeating this calculation for various numbers of extra tickets , the airline can find the one likely to yield the highest revenue . in this example , that 's 198 tickets , from which the airline will probably make $ 48,774 , almost 4,000 more than without overbooking . and that 's just for one flight .	overbooking strategies use … to make predictions .	overbooking strategies use … to make predictions .
an intentional ambiguity was often used as a cheeky means to proposition marriage or a more intimate relationship . therefore , instead of viewing shakespearean works as out-dated , boring , and unhelpful , start reading today and discover the best ways to get the one you love to love you back .	aside from helping men and women get dates , why else is learning shakespeare plays important today ?	aside from helping men and women get dates , why else is learning shakespeare plays important today ?
this conscious purposeful synchronization of different neuronal ensembles by the prefrontal cortex is called mental synthesis . in order for mental sythesis to work , signals would have to arrive at both neuronal ensembles at the same time . the problem is that some neurons are much farther away from the prefrontal cortex than others .	in what tasks would you expect to see a deficit in a lobotomy patient ?	in what tasks would you expect to see a deficit in a lobotomy patient ?
she has an older brother who is fourteen , lucius domitius ahenobarbus , named after her dad . girls do n't get these long names that boys have . what is worse is that dad insists on calling all his daughters domitia .	what was significant about the names of males in ancient rome , and why were the names of females sometimes confusing ?	what was significant about the names of males in ancient rome , and why were the names of females sometimes confusing ?
revelations of covert wars , secret assassinations , and political corruption undermined public faith in official narratives presented by mainstream sources . this breakdown of trust in media gatekeepers lead to alternative newspapers , radio shows , and cable news competing with the major outlets and covering events from various perspectives . more recently , the internet has multiplied the amount of information and viewpoints , with social media , blogs , and online video turning every citizen into a potential reporter .	on a scale of 1 to 10 , how much do you trust mainstream news media ? are you more likely to trust an alternative outlet , like a reliable social media post or a satirical news program ? why or why not ?	on a scale of 1 to 10 , how much do you trust mainstream news media ? are you more likely to trust an alternative outlet , like a reliable social media post or a satirical news program ? why or why not ?
and it is this very process that makes tattoos permanent . first , specialized cells called macrophages eat the invading material in an attempt to clean up the inflammatory mess . as these cells travel through the lymphatic system , some of them are carried back with a belly full of dye into the lymph nodes while others remain in the dermis .	which type of cell is able to engulf , or ‘ eat , ’ invading bacteria and debris ?	which type of cell is able to engulf , or ‘ eat , ’ invading bacteria and debris ?
so just as on earth , clunky stereo systems have shrunk to beautiful , tiny ipods , maybe intelligent life itself , in order to reduce its footprint on the environment , has turned itself microscopic , so the solar system might be teeming with aliens , and we 're just not noticing them . maybe the very ideas in our heads are a form of alien life . well , okay , that 's a crazy thought .	our planet formed relatively recently , compared with the age of the universe . why does this raise a riddle , when it comes to the search for alien life ?	our planet formed relatively recently , compared with the age of the universe . why does this raise a riddle , when it comes to the search for alien life ?
so why do we experience this ? when the immune system is under serious attack , it secretes more cytokines , which trigger two responses . first , the vagus nerve , which runs through the body into the brain , quickly transmits the information to the brain stem , passing near an important area of pain processing .	each time that the immune system is active it secretes cytokines . what do you think happens with autoimmune diseases ?	each time that the immune system is active it secretes cytokines . what do you think happens with autoimmune diseases ?
this led to the creation of mankind , which he placed at the center of the universe with the ability to take whatever form he pleases . mankind , according to pico , could crawl down the chain and behave like an animal or crawl up the chain and behave like a god , it 's our choice . looking back at the sketch , we can see that by changing the position of the man , he can fill the irreconcilable areas of a circle and a square .	where do you think mankind fits on the great chain of being ?	where do you think mankind fits on the great chain of being ?
so i find freedom movement history that includes young people so that they can explore these big ideas of identity , your chosen identity , and the imposed identity . what does membership in society mean ? who has it ?	makeba wants people to wrestle with tough but essential questions like “ what does membership in society mean ? who has it ? ” and “ what does it mean to be a responsible citizen in a democracy ? ” choose one of these questions and develop a brief response .	makeba wants people to wrestle with tough but essential questions like “ what does membership in society mean ? who has it ? ” and “ what does it mean to be a responsible citizen in a democracy ? ” choose one of these questions and develop a brief response .
so , that is to say that we are all essentially barbarians , except for the classics majors , which is worth remembering when we ’ re discussing civilizations . civilizations are like most of the things we like to study , they ’ re intellectual constructs . no one woke up in the city of thebe ’ s in egypt one morning and said , “ what a beautiful morning , i sure am living at the height of egyptian civilization. ” still , they ’ re useful constructs , particularly when you ’ re comparing one civilization to another .	what would you like to learn more about ?	what would you like to learn more about ?
this ushered in the era of chemical pesticides . in 1948 , a swiss chemist named paul hermann müller was awarded a nobel prize for his discovery of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane , also known as ddt . this new molecule had unparalleled power to control many insect species until the 1950s , when insects became resistant to it .	in 1948 , paul müller received the nobel prize in medicine . what was he awarded for ?	in 1948 , paul müller received the nobel prize in medicine . what was he awarded for ?
this ushered in the era of chemical pesticides . in 1948 , a swiss chemist named paul hermann müller was awarded a nobel prize for his discovery of dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane , also known as ddt . this new molecule had unparalleled power to control many insect species until the 1950s , when insects became resistant to it .	nobel prizes are awarded for outstanding academic , cultural or scientific advances . why would the discovery of a pesticide be granted a nobel prize ?	nobel prizes are awarded for outstanding academic , cultural or scientific advances . why would the discovery of a pesticide be granted a nobel prize ?
our ancestors spread across these lands , and so on the sea floor , we find their camps , stone tools , and the bones of animals they hunted . these sites give us invaluable knowledge about our ancestor 's migration patterns , hunting methods , and technologies . in the deepest zone , no human has ever walked .	shallow archaeological sites are easier to access and there are a great number of them , but they are often damaged over the years by storms and treasure seekers . deep sites are hard to find and difficult to access , but are untouched time capsules . should science focus on one type , or are both important ?	shallow archaeological sites are easier to access and there are a great number of them , but they are often damaged over the years by storms and treasure seekers . deep sites are hard to find and difficult to access , but are untouched time capsules . should science focus on one type , or are both important ?
if they look like something else , why not ? [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] there is some deep , internal intelligence . some almost non-verbal narrative which nourishes us , which has its own natural wellspring . and so these drawings try to , you know , touch the rim of that .	slobodan says , “ there is a deep internal intelligence , some nonverbal narrative which _________ us , which has its own natural wellspring . ”	slobodan says , “ there is a deep internal intelligence , some nonverbal narrative which _________ us , which has its own natural wellspring . ”
so the ruthenium is very finely divided and if i tip it you can see in the bottom of the vial very fine powders but again because of the particle size this is really dark , very black , very nice sample of ruthenium very useful for catalytic chemistry . it is as a catalyst that ruthenium is particularly famous . ruthenium itself if you look at a lump of the metal is a kind of silvery colour .	who won the 2005 nobel prize in chemistry , using his famous ruthenium catalyst in olefin metathesis reactions ?	who won the 2005 nobel prize in chemistry , using his famous ruthenium catalyst in olefin metathesis reactions ?
one of the great things about science is that when scientists make a discovery , it 's not always in a prescribed manner , as in , only in a laboratory under strict settings , with white lab coats and all sorts of neat science gizmos that go , `` beep ! '' in reality , the events and people involved in some of the major scientific discoveries are as weird and varied as they get .	scientists can only make discoveries in a laboratory with white lab coats and science gizmos that go beep .	scientists can only make discoveries in a laboratory with white lab coats and science gizmos that go beep .
for example , did you ever wonder why a nickname for edward is ned ? where 'd the n come from ? it 's the same with nellie for ellen .	many words no longer have the n they once had because :	many words no longer have the n they once had because :
note that each feedback is the product of the links in the loop . add one negative link and it will reverse the feedback force entirely , and one weak link will reduce the effect of the entire feedback considerably . lose a link , and the whole loop is broken .	the process of erosion on a landscape is an example of positive feedback . can you describe a feedback loop that explains this process in more detail , starting with the feedback between plant , humus , and at least one more node in the network ? hint : you will have to add more than one negative link .	the process of erosion on a landscape is an example of positive feedback . can you describe a feedback loop that explains this process in more detail , starting with the feedback between plant , humus , and at least one more node in the network ? hint : you will have to add more than one negative link .
note that each feedback is the product of the links in the loop . add one negative link and it will reverse the feedback force entirely , and one weak link will reduce the effect of the entire feedback considerably . lose a link , and the whole loop is broken .	one of the more prevalent feedback loops discussed today is one in relation to melting polar ice caps due to climate change . is this a positive or negative feedback loop ? explain your answer .	one of the more prevalent feedback loops discussed today is one in relation to melting polar ice caps due to climate change . is this a positive or negative feedback loop ? explain your answer .
but perhaps one of the most heartrending experiences was that of the akune family , divided by the war against each other and against their own identities . ichiro akune and his wife yukiye immigrated to america from japan in 1918 in search of opportunity , opening a small grocery store in central california and raising nine children . but when mrs. akune died in 1933 , the children were sent to live with relatives in japan , their father following soon after .	when and where did ichiro and yukiye akune settle in america ?	when and where did ichiro and yukiye akune settle in america ?
other gift economies may involve useful items , such as the potlatch feast of the pacific northwest , where chiefs compete for prestige by giving away livestock and blankets . we might say that instead of accumulating material wealth , participants in a gift economy use it to accumulate social wealth . though some instances of gift economies may resemble barter , the difference is that the original gift is given without any preconditions or haggling .	what does one try to accumulate in a gift economy ?	what does one try to accumulate in a gift economy ?
during an annular or partial eclipse , the sky remains bright . even on those rare occasions of a total eclipse , the moon 's shadow is most likely to fall on the 70 % of earth that is covered by water , and few people , if any , will see it . the eclipse of 2017 will be remarkable on a larger scale because the moon is slowly moving away from earth .	the width of your pinky finger held at arms length will appear to be about twice the width of the full moon . how can this be true for people with very large pinky fingers and for people with very small pinky fingers ? ( if it helps , draw a diagram to help you answer the question )	the width of your pinky finger held at arms length will appear to be about twice the width of the full moon . how can this be true for people with very large pinky fingers and for people with very small pinky fingers ? ( if it helps , draw a diagram to help you answer the question )
it ’ s also used in welder ’ s goggles because it ’ s quite good at filtering out harmful types of light to the human eye , so you find it ’ s in the goggle and it helps the welder be able to see what he ’ s doing . it ’ s also been used in a silicate which is being used to lower the speed of light down to a mere 300 metres per second , which is still pretty fast but not very fast compared to the normal speed of light .	stephen said that praseodymium has also been used as a silicate to lower the speed of light down to a mere 300 m/s . but what is the approximate speed of light in a vacuum ?	stephen said that praseodymium has also been used as a silicate to lower the speed of light down to a mere 300 m/s . but what is the approximate speed of light in a vacuum ?
you 've probably seen illustrations like this or this . these green food chains start with living plants at their base . but in real-life terrestrial ecosystems , less than 10 % of plant matter is eaten while it 's still alive . what about the other 90 ?	what percentage , on average , of living plant biomass on land is consumed alive by herbivores ?	what percentage , on average , of living plant biomass on land is consumed alive by herbivores ?
a mountaintop or prairie ? not good ! you need to get buried , the faster the better , because the longer you hang around on the surface , the more likely you 'll get eaten , scavenged , or otherwise destroyed before ever having a chance to get preserved .	would a dry cave be a good place for permineralization to occur ?	would a dry cave be a good place for permineralization to occur ?
if gasoline use is less restricted by cost , this could also cause a huge surge in air pollution , an unintended consequence that 's important to think about . five : explore other points of view . ask yourself why so many people are drawn to the policies of the opposing political candidate . even if you disagree with everything that candidate says , exploring the full spectrum of viewpoints might explain why some policies that do n't seem valid to you appeal to others .	read the scenario below and respond to the prompt that follows . two candidates are running for president of the united states . one candidate advocates for reducing corporate taxes to incentivize businesses to open in the us , fostering the economy . the opposing candidate wishes to increase corporate tax rates to use the revenue to address domestic issues like education . describe why it is valuable and beneficial to the decision-making process to explore both political perspectives prior to casting your vote .	read the scenario below and respond to the prompt that follows . two candidates are running for president of the united states . one candidate advocates for reducing corporate taxes to incentivize businesses to open in the us , fostering the economy . the opposing candidate wishes to increase corporate tax rates to use the revenue to address domestic issues like education . describe why it is valuable and beneficial to the decision-making process to explore both political perspectives prior to casting your vote .
no central architect designing the structure . just instinct and cooperation lets termites build huge ventilation engines powered by nothing but daily temperature cycles . leafcutter ants farm fungus on massive scales too . one colony in south america covered nearly 50 square meters and was home to over 8 million ants ! but unlike those towering termites , the ant labyrinth reached 8 meters underground .	what natural daily phenomenon do the ants use to regulate the temperature of their anthill ?	what natural daily phenomenon do the ants use to regulate the temperature of their anthill ?
a babylonian tablet from around 1800 b.c . lists 15 sets of numbers that satisfy the theorem . some historians speculate that ancient egyptian surveyors used one such set of numbers , 3 , 4 , 5 , to make square corners .	which of the following sets of the numbers consists of a pythagorean triple ( whole numbers which satisfy the pythagorean theorem ) ?	which of the following sets of the numbers consists of a pythagorean triple ( whole numbers which satisfy the pythagorean theorem ) ?
the stuff that things are made of is always in flux ; it 's always changing . macaroni salad is only macaroni salad for a short time . you eat it , some of it becomes part of you , the rest eventually goes into the ocean and gets eaten by other animals that die , and after millions of years , they turn into oil , which is where gasoline comes from .	which is not an atom that repeatedly shows up in macaroni salad ?	which is not an atom that repeatedly shows up in macaroni salad ?
pangloss 's breezy optimism is clearly an inadequate response to enormities of evil on this scale . eventually , even candide comes to realize this : to quote from the book , 'and sometimes pangloss would say to candide : after 1760 , voltaire took up residence in the château at ferney , just outside geneva . by now , he was the most famous living writer in europe , and he became widely known as the ‘ patriarch of ferney ’ .	which of these popular phrases came from candide ?	which of these popular phrases came from candide ?
jenner later used the cowpox virus in several other people and challenged them repeatedly with smallpox , proving that they were immune to the disease . with this procedure , jenner invented the smallpox vaccination . unlike variolation , which used actual smallpox virus to try to protect people , vaccination used the far less dangerous cowpox virus . the medical establishment , cautious then as now , deliberated at length over his findings before accepting them .	how did the smallpox virus infection spread most frequently ?	how did the smallpox virus infection spread most frequently ?
jenner later used the cowpox virus in several other people and challenged them repeatedly with smallpox , proving that they were immune to the disease . with this procedure , jenner invented the smallpox vaccination . unlike variolation , which used actual smallpox virus to try to protect people , vaccination used the far less dangerous cowpox virus . the medical establishment , cautious then as now , deliberated at length over his findings before accepting them .	what are the organs attacked by the smallpox virus , and what are the clinical symptoms that can develop after infection ?	what are the organs attacked by the smallpox virus , and what are the clinical symptoms that can develop after infection ?
at the same time , we cleared forests for agriculture , reducing the earth 's ability to remove the blocks . and since 1750 , the amount of carbon in the atmosophere has increased by 40 % , and shows no sign of slowing . just like in tetris , the more blocks pile up , the harder it becomes to restore stability .	how much has co2 increased in the atmosphere since 1750 ?	how much has co2 increased in the atmosphere since 1750 ?
we 'd simply be crushed by their sheer numbers . there are an estimated 10 quintillion individual insects on earth . that 's a one followed by 19 zeroes .	how many insects are there on earth ?	how many insects are there on earth ?
you 're probably just stressed out . stress is n't always a bad thing . it can be handy for a burst of extra energy and focus , like when you 're playing a competitive sport , or have to speak in public .	can stress ever be a good thing ? explain .	can stress ever be a good thing ? explain .
you 're probably just stressed out . stress is n't always a bad thing . it can be handy for a burst of extra energy and focus , like when you 're playing a competitive sport , or have to speak in public .	what are some ways to manage stress ?	what are some ways to manage stress ?
and to understand these processes , we need to zoom down to the level of our individual cells . inside each of these cells , chemical reactions are constantly occurring , powered by the glucose and oxygen that our bodies convert into the energy-carrying molecule known as atp . cells use this energy for everything from repair to growth to reproduction . not only does it take a lot of energy to make the necessary molecules , but it takes even more to get them where they need to be .	what sort of energy do cells run on ?	what sort of energy do cells run on ?
mutans streptococci are resistant to this acid , but unfortunately , our teeth are n't . while each human tooth is coated in a hardy , protective layer of enamel , it 's no match for acid . that degrades the armor over time , leaching away its calcium minerals .	the protective layer on the tooth surface is called the :	the protective layer on the tooth surface is called the :
you can see where we 're going with this . take the whole cube and extend it out one inch , this time perpendicular to all three existing directions , and we get a 4d hypercube , also called a tesseract . for all we know , there could be four-dimensional lifeforms somewhere out there , occasionally poking their heads into our bustling 3d world and wondering what all the fuss is about .	what is a tesseract ?	what is a tesseract ?
-there are 10 types of people in the world . those who understand binary , those who do n't , and those who did n't expect this joke to be in base 3 . matt parker : ok , good point , because i guess you -- ok , so it depends on the base .	why does the binary joke ( the first joke ) work for binary through base 9 ?	why does the binary joke ( the first joke ) work for binary through base 9 ?
this will leave x isolated on the right side of the equation . 150 miles divided by 2 hours is 75 miles over 1 hour . mark 's rate is 75 miles per hour .	how fast are you driving if you drove 168 miles in 4 hours ?	how fast are you driving if you drove 168 miles in 4 hours ?
this will leave x isolated on the right side of the equation . 150 miles divided by 2 hours is 75 miles over 1 hour . mark 's rate is 75 miles per hour .	two friends ride skateboards in opposite directions . the speed of the first skateboarder is 5 miles per hour faster than the second . after 2 hours , they are 70 miles apart . what are their rates ?	two friends ride skateboards in opposite directions . the speed of the first skateboarder is 5 miles per hour faster than the second . after 2 hours , they are 70 miles apart . what are their rates ?
here are eight of them . but down here in the lower-right corner , `` what color is a mirror ? '' when people see that , it 's very difficult not to click , because you think , `` come on , are you serious ?	what color is a mirror ?	what color is a mirror ?
if he had stuck two together , it probably would have made a wicked set of sunglasses that you could n't see much out of . anyhoo , once leeuwenhoek had his microscope ready , he went to town , looking at anything and everything he could with them , including the gunk on his teeth . yes , you heard right .	anton van leeuwenhoek made his own version of the microscope and discovered something very odd when he looked a the gunk on his teeth . what did he discover ?	anton van leeuwenhoek made his own version of the microscope and discovered something very odd when he looked a the gunk on his teeth . what did he discover ?
that includes red blood cells , which carry oxygen from the lungs to all tissues , platelets , which help stop bleeding by sticking to damaged blood vessels , and white blood cells , which patrol the body , destroying potentially harmful invaders . every once in a while , something goes wrong during a stem cell 's specialization process and harmful mutations occur in the cell 's dna . cells with compromised dna are supposed to self-destruct , but some damaged cells ignore this order , replicating uncontrollably , even as they lose their original function .	stem cell transplantation can help fight leukemia . explain why it is used and how it works .	stem cell transplantation can help fight leukemia . explain why it is used and how it works .
things don ’ t have to be quite the way they are . in the course of fully realising our freedom , we will come up against what sartre calls the ‘ angoisse ’ or ‘ anguish ’ of existence . everything is ( terrifyingly ) possible because nothing has any pre-ordained , god-given sense or purpose .	what is `` angoisse ? ''	what is `` angoisse ? ''
at the threshold , the priestess pauses , claims her innocence one last time , then enters the chamber never to be seen again by the roman people . the priestess is one of rome 's six vestal virgins , each carefully selected as children from rome 's most aristocratic families . but now with her death , there are only five , and a new priestess must be chosen .	how many vestal virgins served at the same time ?	how many vestal virgins served at the same time ?
language purists worked to establish and propagate this standard by detailing a set of rules that reflected the established grammar of their times . and rules for written grammar were applied to spoken language , as well . speech patterns that deviated from the written rules were considered corruptions , or signs of low social status , and many people who had grown up speaking in these ways were forced to adopt the standardized form .	the spoken version of a language has :	the spoken version of a language has :
how do you find your way around large territory and large space . similarly with the fifth intelligence bodily kinesthetic intelligence it comes in two flavors . one flavor is the ability to use your whole body to solve problems or to make things .	what are the first two types of intelligence ?	what are the first two types of intelligence ?
how do you find your way around large territory and large space . similarly with the fifth intelligence bodily kinesthetic intelligence it comes in two flavors . one flavor is the ability to use your whole body to solve problems or to make things .	what is bodily kinesthetic intelligence ?	what is bodily kinesthetic intelligence ?
it 's a good thing the government collapsed under their own incompetence and greed when they tried to stage a military coup then had to ask the bolsheviks for help when it backfired . after that , all lenin had to do was return in october and take charge . the government was peacefully overthrown overnight . ''	which country helped lenin return from exile during the july days ?	which country helped lenin return from exile during the july days ?
pain is something we experience , so it 's best measured by what you say it is . pain has an intensity ; you can describe it on a scale from zero , no pain , to ten , the most pain imaginable . but pain also has a character , like sharp , dull , burning , or aching .	pain is defined as ________ .	pain is defined as ________ .
as we viewed it , it was a vase of flowers that would be kept for the visitors . historically , aquariums kept sharks that lived near the seabed or near reefs . that makes sense - it ’ s easier to recreate those habitats in a tank .	why do aquariums usually keep sharks that live near reefs ?	why do aquariums usually keep sharks that live near reefs ?
the areal density of a modern hard drive is about 600 gigabits per square inch , 300 million times greater than that of ibm 's first hard drive from 1957 . this amazing advance in storage capacity was n't just a matter of making everything smaller , but involved multiple innovations . a technique called the thin film lithography process allowed engineers to shrink the reader and writer .	ever increasing areal density means more storage capacity at lower costs . give a few examples of how having cheap and large storage capacity has changed ( or can change ) the quality of our lives .	ever increasing areal density means more storage capacity at lower costs . give a few examples of how having cheap and large storage capacity has changed ( or can change ) the quality of our lives .
with two sets of eyes , this female prowls the deeper water . prey in hand , she performs one of the strangest behaviors in the entire animal kingdom . with body parts from her victims , she delicately assembles a barrel-like home feeding her young until they can drift off and survive on their own .	what ’ s one of the more interesting parenting behaviors of the amphipod phronima ?	what ’ s one of the more interesting parenting behaviors of the amphipod phronima ?
what we now know is that life is not contained in some magical substance or spark , but within the ongoing biological processes themselves . and to understand these processes , we need to zoom down to the level of our individual cells . inside each of these cells , chemical reactions are constantly occurring , powered by the glucose and oxygen that our bodies convert into the energy-carrying molecule known as atp . cells use this energy for everything from repair to growth to reproduction . not only does it take a lot of energy to make the necessary molecules , but it takes even more to get them where they need to be .	highly organized systems like living cells should have _____ .	highly organized systems like living cells should have _____ .
and the nephrons have to figure out what to do with them . the tubules sense compounds the body does n't need , like urea , left over from the breakdown of proteins , and redirects them as urine out of the kidneys and through two long sewers called ureters . the tubes empty their contents into the bladder to be discharged , ridding your body of that waste once and for all .	urea is a by-product of the breakdown of _____	urea is a by-product of the breakdown of _____
as gross as this scenario sounds , it 's actually very common for our bodies to be exposed to disease-causing germs , and most of the time , it 's not nearly as obvious . germs are found on almost every surface we come into contact with . when we talk about germs , we 're actually referring to many different kinds of microscopic organisms , including bacteria , fungi , protozoa and viruses . but what our germs all have in common is the ability to interact with our bodies and change how we feel and function . scientists who study infectious diseases have wondered for decades why it is that some of these germs are relatively harmless , while others cause devastating effects and can sometimes be fatal . we still have n't solved the entire puzzle , but what we do know is that the harmfulness , or virulence , of a germ is a result of evolution .	germs include :	germs include :
anything helps , you know , anything helps . any time someone puts a little bit more effort into the community , [ whistle ] the community stands stronger . and you just hope that it grasps and it keeps moving forward .	`` any time someone puts a little more effort in the community , the community stands stronger , '' said the football coach in the film . what do you think he means by this ? include some examples from the film . describe a situation in your life where a community you are part of ( family , school , town , etc . ) has grown stronger due to a group effort . in a paragraph , describe the situation , the efforts that were taken , and the outcome .	`` any time someone puts a little more effort in the community , the community stands stronger , '' said the football coach in the film . what do you think he means by this ? include some examples from the film . describe a situation in your life where a community you are part of ( family , school , town , etc . ) has grown stronger due to a group effort . in a paragraph , describe the situation , the efforts that were taken , and the outcome .
if both x chromosomes produced proteins , as is normal in other chromosomes , development of the embryo would be completely impaired . the solution is x inactivation . this happens early in development when an embryo with two x chromosomes is just a ball of cells .	why is x-inactivation necessary in individuals with two x chromosomes ?	why is x-inactivation necessary in individuals with two x chromosomes ?
if both x chromosomes produced proteins , as is normal in other chromosomes , development of the embryo would be completely impaired . the solution is x inactivation . this happens early in development when an embryo with two x chromosomes is just a ball of cells .	when does the process of x-inactivation occur ?	when does the process of x-inactivation occur ?
the first studies of the concept came from anthropologists bronislaw malinowski and marcel mauss who describe the natives of the trobriand islands making dangerous canoe journeys across miles of ocean to exchange shell necklaces and arm bands . the items traded through this process , known as the kula ring , have no practical use , but derive importance from their original owners and carry an obligation to continue the exchange . other gift economies may involve useful items , such as the potlatch feast of the pacific northwest , where chiefs compete for prestige by giving away livestock and blankets .	what is the purpose of the objects traded in the kula ring ?	what is the purpose of the objects traded in the kula ring ?
authentic narrative is the glue that connects people , providing a compelling reason to keep reading . it makes the personal universal , transcends the individual , and makes a story timeless and humanistic . how , as a journalist , do you ask the questions that yield this type of narrative ?	what are some books/articles or websites you have read that have been so powerfully personal you have been affected deeply by the story ? can you explain why ?	what are some books/articles or websites you have read that have been so powerfully personal you have been affected deeply by the story ? can you explain why ?
in fact , the organ so confused leonardo da vinci , that he gave up studying it . although everyone could feel their own heart beating , it was n't always clear what each thump was achieving . now we know that the heart pumps blood . but that fact was n't always obvious , because if a heart was exposed or taken out , the body would perish quickly .	the two sides of the heart can be described as	the two sides of the heart can be described as
do you find it beautiful ? is it creative ? now , would you change your answers if you learned the composer was this robot ?	why do researchers use evolutionary algorithms in an effort to develop creative robots ?	why do researchers use evolutionary algorithms in an effort to develop creative robots ?
the scar tissue is fragile , sensitive to changes in temperature and sensation , and should be kept in moist environments to maximize healing . this presence of excessive fibrous connective tissue in an organ is known as fibrosis , and if that term sounds familiar , it 's because our skin is not the only organ vulnerable to scarring . cystic fibrosis is a genetic disorder that causes scarring of the pancreas , while pulmonary fibrosis is a scarring of the lungs , resulting in shortness of breath .	which other organs , apart from those mentioned in the lesson , could also be vulnerable to becoming deficient following fibrosis ? why ?	which other organs , apart from those mentioned in the lesson , could also be vulnerable to becoming deficient following fibrosis ? why ?
it 's why people on roller coasters can go from screaming to laughing within moments . your body is already in a euphoric state . you 're just relabeling the experience .	during fight or flight , our body prioritizes all the following types of brain and body functioning except for :	during fight or flight , our body prioritizes all the following types of brain and body functioning except for :
that makes its products cheaper on world markets , it makes it a more attractive tourist destination , and it means that foreign investors can get great bargains . but if unemployment is really low , a country likes to have an expensive currency . that increases people 's purchasing power and it keeps prices down .	the main objective of having a single currency in eu was to :	the main objective of having a single currency in eu was to :
nitrous oxide became popular in the decades that followed and is still used today . although ether derivatives , like sevoflurane , are more common . inhalational anesthesia is usually supplemented with intravenous anesthesia , which was developed in the 1870s . common intravenous agents include sedatives , like propofol , which induce unconsciousness , and opioids , like fentanyl , which reduce pain .	this is a common opioid used for anesthesia induction before cases :	this is a common opioid used for anesthesia induction before cases :
these foods may taste completely different , but all of these phenomena come from tiny organisms chowing down on sugar and belching up some culinary byproducts . let 's start with yeast . yeast are single-celled fungi used to make bread , beer , and wine , among other products . yeast break down carbohydrates , like sugar , to get energy and the molecules they need to function .	in which of the described dishes is yeast not being used ?	in which of the described dishes is yeast not being used ?
ok , let 's review . the atom is really , really , really small . think atoms in a grapefruit like blueberries in the earth .	come up with your own analogy as to the size of an atom . do some proportions to determine how you could describe how small an atom is .	come up with your own analogy as to the size of an atom . do some proportions to determine how you could describe how small an atom is .
commas are tricky things , especially when subordinates and conjunctions are involved . if you can remember a few basic rules , a simple law of physics , and some common scenarios , you will be able to use commas correctly . i like to think of the different parts of our sentence as characters .	english is a difficult language to learn . the rules regarding the written word are vast . at times , the rules can be confusing . what value should be placed on punctuation ? should a person be judged by his or her ability ( or lack thereof ) to use commas correctly ? are there some professions where punctuation is more important ? would you hire someone who wasn ’ t a strong writer ?	english is a difficult language to learn . the rules regarding the written word are vast . at times , the rules can be confusing . what value should be placed on punctuation ? should a person be judged by his or her ability ( or lack thereof ) to use commas correctly ? are there some professions where punctuation is more important ? would you hire someone who wasn ’ t a strong writer ?
because there is less water to move through , this still massive amount of energy is compressed . the wave 's speed slows down , while its height rises to as much as 100 feet . the word tsunami , japanese for `` harbor wave , '' comes from the fact that it only seems to appear near the coast . if the trough of a tsunami reaches shore first , the water will withdraw farther than normal before the wave hits , which can be misleadingly dangerous . a tsunami will not only drown people near the coast , but level buildings and trees for a mile inland or more , especially in low-lying areas . as if that were n't enough , the water then retreats , dragging with it the newly created debris , and anything , or anyone , unfortunate enough to be caught in its path .	why is ‘ tidal wave ’ not an accurate name for a tsunami ?	why is ‘ tidal wave ’ not an accurate name for a tsunami ?
at the highest rating on the scale , these balding areas meet and expand dramatically , eventually leaving only a ring of sparse hair around the temples and the back of the head . genetics is n't all that drives hair loss . long periods of stress can release signals that shock follicles and force them into the resting phase prematurely .	imbalance of hormones is linked with hair loss . researchers are investigating hormone replacement therapy ( hrt ) by using estrogen and progesterone to reverse this . what could be the risks in adopting such approach ?	imbalance of hormones is linked with hair loss . researchers are investigating hormone replacement therapy ( hrt ) by using estrogen and progesterone to reverse this . what could be the risks in adopting such approach ?
at the highest rating on the scale , these balding areas meet and expand dramatically , eventually leaving only a ring of sparse hair around the temples and the back of the head . genetics is n't all that drives hair loss . long periods of stress can release signals that shock follicles and force them into the resting phase prematurely .	hair loss such as those induced by chemotherapy and childbirth can result in psychological stress . what forms of social support can be appropriate to address this ?	hair loss such as those induced by chemotherapy and childbirth can result in psychological stress . what forms of social support can be appropriate to address this ?
a second descendant of the arabic root was adopted into english through old french as the word cipher . originally sharing the meaning empty with zero , cipher later came to describe a code , as early codes often used complicated substitutions between letters and numbers . from this shared empty origin , zero continues to represent the number that represents nothing .	what are the two ways that zero is used ?	what are the two ways that zero is used ?
that 's 18,000 miles an hour , just over mach 23 ! the second problem : if you 're going that fast , yes , you would orbit the earth and come back where you came from , but there 's a lot of air in the way , much less people and things . so you would burn up due to atmospheric friction .	if a ball is tossed up in the air , when does it not experience the force of gravity ?	if a ball is tossed up in the air , when does it not experience the force of gravity ?
so this is a sample of my favourite element , this is phosphorus . phosphorus is a very , very reactive element , especially this type of phosphorus which is white phosphorus . phosphorus itself , elemental phosphorus , exists as a number of different allotropes , so a bit like carbon with diamond and graphite , and here we have one of these allotropes ; it ’ s white phosphorus . it exists as discrete molecules of four phosphorus atoms connected like a pyramid , and those four phosphorus atoms are really strained , really reactive and they want to really react with oxygen as quick as they can .	what is the correct order of increasing reactivity and toxicity of the three allotropes of phosphorus ?	what is the correct order of increasing reactivity and toxicity of the three allotropes of phosphorus ?
the earliest known pregnancy test dates back to 1350 bc in ancient egypt . according to the egyptians , all you have to do is urinate on wheat and barley seeds , and wait .	what are some other things that might cause a pregnancy test to give the wrong result ?	what are some other things that might cause a pregnancy test to give the wrong result ?
in short , people tend to prefer things they 've been exposed to before . for example , a song comes on the radio that we do n't particularly like , but then we hear the song at the grocery store , at the movie theater and again on the street corner . soon , we are tapping to the beat , singing the words , even downloading the track .	have you ever disliked a song at first , and then come to like it ? why might that be ?	have you ever disliked a song at first , and then come to like it ? why might that be ?
will robots become conscious one day ? i mean , i kind of assumed that some day i would be told the answers to all these questions . i mean , someone must know , right ?	when anderson was younger , he assumed	when anderson was younger , he assumed
[ dennis ] it 's a vicious cycle because once you come to prison your life just keeps tumbling , tumbling , tumbling , and it 's like a never-ending wall that wo n't stop building unless you find some way to get over that wall or at least in front of it . [ richman ] what circumstances did they have to survive on the street to bring them to where they are now ? do we want to save those lives , or do we want to discard them ? the crimes i committed , i brought shame to not only myself but to those who i love .	roberta richman , assistant director of rehabilitative services asks , `` what circumstances did they have to survive on the street to bring them to where they are now ? do we want to save those lives or do we want to discard them ? '' what is your response to this quote ?	roberta richman , assistant director of rehabilitative services asks , `` what circumstances did they have to survive on the street to bring them to where they are now ? do we want to save those lives or do we want to discard them ? '' what is your response to this quote ?
or we can combine a two beat rhythm with a three beat one . eliminating the extra main beat and rotating the inner wheel leaves us with a rhythm whose underlying feel is three-four . this is the basis of the music of whirling dervishes , as well as a broad range of latin american rhythms , such as joropo , and even bach 's famous chaconne .	the main tools of rhythm construction we use are :	the main tools of rhythm construction we use are :
while other countries mint new citizens with the ever popular process of human reproduction vatican city does not . no one in vatican city is born a citizen -- and that 's not just because , within a rounding error , there are no female vaticans . the only way to become a citizen is for the king of vatican city to appoint you as one . and the king only appoints you a citizen if you work for the pope -- who is also the king .	explain how one could become a citizen of vatican city .	explain how one could become a citizen of vatican city .
there are still some english words with `` sk , '' like `` skirt , '' and `` skull , '' but they 're direct borrowings from old norse that came after the `` sk '' to `` sh '' shift . these examples show us that just as the various romance languages descended from latin , english , swedish , german , and many other languages descended from their own common ancestor known as proto-germanic spoken around 500 b.c.e . because this historical language was never written down , we can only reconstruct it by comparing its descendants , which is possible thanks to the consistency of the changes .	we can tell that languages are related to one another because _____ .	we can tell that languages are related to one another because _____ .
but , there is still a lot that we do n't know about the brain . scientists have worked for years on trying to understand the human brain using techniques like eeg and fmri , where we scan the brain from the outside . but what if we could look inside the brains of humans and watch them as they work ?	according to cerf , the brain is the most astonishing part of the human body . why ?	according to cerf , the brain is the most astonishing part of the human body . why ?
oh , one last thing , just to make you wonder . what causes gravity ? why are two objects with mass attracted to each other ?	as the video states , a person weighs less on the moon than on the earth . discuss why gravity is a benefit . what would it be like if the force of gravity were stronger ? what if it were equal to that of the moon ? why are gravity and weight related ?	as the video states , a person weighs less on the moon than on the earth . discuss why gravity is a benefit . what would it be like if the force of gravity were stronger ? what if it were equal to that of the moon ? why are gravity and weight related ?
oh , one last thing , just to make you wonder . what causes gravity ? why are two objects with mass attracted to each other ?	the video uses magnets as an analogy to gravity . in what ways are magnetism and gravity the same ? in what ways are they different ?	the video uses magnets as an analogy to gravity . in what ways are magnetism and gravity the same ? in what ways are they different ?
oh , one last thing , just to make you wonder . what causes gravity ? why are two objects with mass attracted to each other ?	what is gravity ?	what is gravity ?
oh , one last thing , just to make you wonder . what causes gravity ? why are two objects with mass attracted to each other ?	what causes gravity ?	what causes gravity ?
but what 's interesting is that even the densest aggregations of their prey are n't enough for spinner dolphins to make it . it 's a pretty tough life there in the ocean . so these animals actually work together to herd their prey into even denser aggregations , starting with patches that they find in the first place .	what does benoit-bird call the ocean ?	what does benoit-bird call the ocean ?
the thief could test this whole building with just four total throws by dropping the first egg at floors four , seven , and nine . if it broke at floor four , it would take up to three throws of the second egg to find the exact floor . if it broke at seven , it would take up to two throws with the second egg .	is it true that the thief will need 14 throws to find the correct floor ?	is it true that the thief will need 14 throws to find the correct floor ?
in short , it was cool . and then because these artists were never trying to be minimalist to begin with , they moved on to other things and other kinds of art had its day . but minimalism changed things .	what were minimalist artists embracing ?	what were minimalist artists embracing ?
if it went from 0 to 100 , it would look like this . this is one of the most common ways graphs misrepresent data , by distorting the scale . zooming in on a small portion of the y-axis exaggerates a barely detectable difference between the things being compared .	distorting the scale on a graph is one of the most common methods of presenting which of the following form ( s ) of misleading information ?	distorting the scale on a graph is one of the most common methods of presenting which of the following form ( s ) of misleading information ?
as the snowflake moves through the air , water vapor molecules stick to the six sharp edges and expand the snowflake outwards , bit by bit . a snowflake 's developing shape depends on atmospheric conditions , like humidity and temperature . as a snowflake falls , changes in weather conditions can affect how it grows , and even small differences in the paths two snowflakes take will differentiate their shapes . however , since conditions at the six sharp edges of one snowflake are similar , a symmetric snowflake can grow .	we say that no two snowflakes are the same because they all form under different conditions . but why do they look so symmetric ?	we say that no two snowflakes are the same because they all form under different conditions . but why do they look so symmetric ?
well , the faster you go , the greater the effect of time dilation . if you could travel really close to the speed of light , say 99.9999 % , on a round-trip through space for what seemed to you like ten years , you 'd actually return to earth around the year 9000. who knows what you 'd see when you returned ? ! humanity merged with machines , extinct due to climate change or asteroid impact , or inhabiting a permanent colony on mars .	if you traveled around space at 99.9999 % of the speed of light , for what seemed to you like 10 years , roughly what would be the year on earth when you got back ?	if you traveled around space at 99.9999 % of the speed of light , for what seemed to you like 10 years , roughly what would be the year on earth when you got back ?
well , the faster you go , the greater the effect of time dilation . if you could travel really close to the speed of light , say 99.9999 % , on a round-trip through space for what seemed to you like ten years , you 'd actually return to earth around the year 9000. who knows what you 'd see when you returned ? ! humanity merged with machines , extinct due to climate change or asteroid impact , or inhabiting a permanent colony on mars .	think about what it might be like for someone from the 21st century arriving back to earth in the year 9000. can you see any problems they might encounter ? imagine if someone from 7000 years ago arrived now .	think about what it might be like for someone from the 21st century arriving back to earth in the year 9000. can you see any problems they might encounter ? imagine if someone from 7000 years ago arrived now .
we did that . the harvard study of adult development may be the longest study of adult life that 's ever been done . for 75 years , we 've tracked the lives of 724 men , year after year , asking about their work , their home lives , their health , and of course asking all along the way without knowing how their life stories were going to turn out .	how long has the harvard study of adult development been tracking the lives of 724 men ?	how long has the harvard study of adult development been tracking the lives of 724 men ?
it 's not that life was that bad , it was just hard to keep a steady grin for more than a few seconds , so people opted for a straight-faced look . and then george eastman came along . eastman believed that everyone should have access to photography , and he spent many late nights mixing chemicals in his mother 's kitchen to try to achieve a dry plate photographic process .	who came up with the idea of camera obscura ?	who came up with the idea of camera obscura ?
we have n't lost track of it since . today , we 've discovered hundreds of thousands of asteroids . many , including ceres , orbit the sun between mars and jupiter , while near-earth asteroids orbit the sun relatively close to earth . when we recorded this narration , astronomers had discovered 16,407 near-earth asteroids , but since we find new asteroids all the time , that number will have grown by hundreds or thousands by the time you watch this . today , asteroid hunters use modern telescopes , including one in space .	at the time this narration was recorded , how many near-earth asteroids had been discovered ?	at the time this narration was recorded , how many near-earth asteroids had been discovered ?
here 's how it happened . tolstoy , a volcanic soul , was born to a famously eccentric aristocratic family in 1828 . by the time he was 30 , he had already dropped out of kazan university , gambled away the family fortune , joined the army , written memoirs , and rejected the literary establishment to travel europe .	how did tolstoy ’ s own life and family experiences seem to affect his work ?	how did tolstoy ’ s own life and family experiences seem to affect his work ?
many generations have felt they 've reached the pinnacle of technological advancement , yet look back 100 years , and the technologies we take for granted today would seem like impossible magic . so will there be a point where we reach an actual limit of technological progress ? and if so , are we anywhere near that limit now ?	what is limiting technological progress ?	what is limiting technological progress ?
during violent disturbances , such as a large star exploding into a supernova , billions of particles are emitted into space . although they are called rays , cosmic rays consist of these high energy particles rather than the photons that make up light rays . while the light from an explosion travels in a straight line at its famous constant speed , the particles are trapped in extraordinary loops by magnetic shockwaves generated by the explosion .	cosmic rays consist of high-energy particles generated by astrophysical objects and accelerated at almost the speed of light by :	cosmic rays consist of high-energy particles generated by astrophysical objects and accelerated at almost the speed of light by :
during violent disturbances , such as a large star exploding into a supernova , billions of particles are emitted into space . although they are called rays , cosmic rays consist of these high energy particles rather than the photons that make up light rays . while the light from an explosion travels in a straight line at its famous constant speed , the particles are trapped in extraordinary loops by magnetic shockwaves generated by the explosion .	cosmic rays travel in our galaxy :	cosmic rays travel in our galaxy :
during violent disturbances , such as a large star exploding into a supernova , billions of particles are emitted into space . although they are called rays , cosmic rays consist of these high energy particles rather than the photons that make up light rays . while the light from an explosion travels in a straight line at its famous constant speed , the particles are trapped in extraordinary loops by magnetic shockwaves generated by the explosion .	secondary cosmic rays :	secondary cosmic rays :
employed as both a placeholder and a number , this all-powerful dot eventually morphed into the symbol we know today . the word zero comes from the arabic safira , whose literal translation is empty . passing through italian as zefiro , zero came into english in the seventeenth century . a second descendant of the arabic root was adopted into english through old french as the word cipher .	what kind of math can you do without zero ?	what kind of math can you do without zero ?
employed as both a placeholder and a number , this all-powerful dot eventually morphed into the symbol we know today . the word zero comes from the arabic safira , whose literal translation is empty . passing through italian as zefiro , zero came into english in the seventeenth century . a second descendant of the arabic root was adopted into english through old french as the word cipher .	what are some numeral systems that don ’ t use zero ?	what are some numeral systems that don ’ t use zero ?
the solidarity movement , which organized workers in cold war poland emerged just this way , first , with local shipyard strikes in 1980 that forced concessions , then , over the next decade , a nationwide effort that ultimately helped topple poland 's communist government . getting early wins sets in motion a positive feedback loop , a contagion , a belief , a motivation . it requires pressuring policymakers , using the media to change narrative , making arguments in public , persuading skeptical neighbors one by one by one .	which of the following is least associated with getting early wins ?	which of the following is least associated with getting early wins ?
the solidarity movement , which organized workers in cold war poland emerged just this way , first , with local shipyard strikes in 1980 that forced concessions , then , over the next decade , a nationwide effort that ultimately helped topple poland 's communist government . getting early wins sets in motion a positive feedback loop , a contagion , a belief , a motivation . it requires pressuring policymakers , using the media to change narrative , making arguments in public , persuading skeptical neighbors one by one by one .	explain the importance of an “ early win ” to a movement and how it contributes to a positive feedback loop .	explain the importance of an “ early win ” to a movement and how it contributes to a positive feedback loop .
how do you know you 're real ? it 's an obvious question until you try to answer it , but let 's take it seriously . how do you really know you exist ?	how did descartes try to answer the question about existence ?	how did descartes try to answer the question about existence ?
like other egyptians who could afford it , ani customized his scroll to include the particular spells , prayers , and codes he thought his spirit might need . equipped with this arsenal , our hero traverses the obstacles , repels the monsters ' acts , and stealthily avoids apep to reach the hall of ma'at , goddess of truth and justice . here , ani faces his final challenge .	who is the winged goddess of truth and justice ?	who is the winged goddess of truth and justice ?
what happened was that when people said , `` an ekename , '' it could sound like they were saying , `` a nekename , '' and after a while , so many people were hearing it that way that they started saying , `` that 's my nickname , '' instead of , `` that 's my ekename . '' now , the word had a stray n at the front that started as a mistake , but from now on was what the word really was . it was rather as if you had gum on the bottom of your shoe and stepped on a leaf , dragged that leaf along for the rest of your life , were buried wearing that shoe and went to heaven in it to spend eternity wedded to that stray , worn-out leaf .	if you know that orange in spanish is naranja and naranj in arabic , then what can you guess about why the word orange has no n at the beginning ?	if you know that orange in spanish is naranja and naranj in arabic , then what can you guess about why the word orange has no n at the beginning ?
and it turns out that in weightlessness , you lose bone . and then you also cause the muscles that work against gravity , what are called the postural muscles , they 'll start to shrink and lose strength . there are other things in the cardiovascular system , the heart and blood vessels .	the muscles that work against gravity are called the ________ muscles .	the muscles that work against gravity are called the ________ muscles .
so beryllium is a fantastic metal , it is really , really interesting , it ’ s got really lots of strange metallic properties , but one of the most important to me is that it is transparent to x-rays . so i can shine x-rays straight through the beryllium and the beryllium does not absorb it at all which most other metals especially those with higher molecular weights do . beryllium-laden dust has been shown to cause berylliosis which is actually an industrial lung disease which causes the formation of swollen nodules in the lungs called granulomas which is a bit gross , so i don ’ t really want to open up the jar .	the green and beautiful gemstone , emerald , is a variety of the mineral beryl and is a beryllium aluminium silicate . what is its molecular formula ?	the green and beautiful gemstone , emerald , is a variety of the mineral beryl and is a beryllium aluminium silicate . what is its molecular formula ?
now , why is this so useful ? well , in chess , it 's a very complicated case . you got all these chess pieces , it 's 32 pieces , but after five moves , the position starts to evolve a little bit .	which of these is not a method chess players employ to figure out the other player 's next move ?	which of these is not a method chess players employ to figure out the other player 's next move ?
we 're still excavating many of these wrecks today , like blackbeard 's ship , which is revealing secrets about life as an 18th century pirate . but past 50 feet , there are even deeper , better preserved shipwrecks , like the wreck at antikythera , which sank during the 1st century bc . when it was discovered , it contained statues , trade cargo , and also the earliest known computer , a mysterious device called the antikythera mechanism that kept track of astronomical changes and eclipses .	what is the benefit of shipwrecks deeper than 50 feet to understanding the past , as opposed to those in shallow waters ?	what is the benefit of shipwrecks deeper than 50 feet to understanding the past , as opposed to those in shallow waters ?
but how likely is it that they will manage to find a signal ? there are certainly no guarantees when it comes to seti , but something called the drake equation , named after frank drake , can help us organize our thinking about what might be required for successful detection . if you 've dealt with equations before , then you probably expect that there will be a solution to the equation , a right answer .	the drake equation does not have a definitive solution . instead , it 's really seen as a tool to help us organize our thinking about the possibilities of technologically advanced alien life . what have you learned about these possibilities from learning about the drake equation ? are equations like this helpful ? why ?	the drake equation does not have a definitive solution . instead , it 's really seen as a tool to help us organize our thinking about the possibilities of technologically advanced alien life . what have you learned about these possibilities from learning about the drake equation ? are equations like this helpful ? why ?
plus , the foods and beverages caffeine is found in have their own impacts on your body that have to be taken into account . your brain can adapt to regular consumption of caffeine . if your adenosine receptors are perpetually clogged , your body will manufacture extra ones .	which of the following isn ’ t manifested after caffeine consumption :	which of the following isn ’ t manifested after caffeine consumption :
plus , the foods and beverages caffeine is found in have their own impacts on your body that have to be taken into account . your brain can adapt to regular consumption of caffeine . if your adenosine receptors are perpetually clogged , your body will manufacture extra ones .	when the brain adapts to regular consumption of caffeine , more caffeine must be consumed to get the same alertness . the main reason for that is :	when the brain adapts to regular consumption of caffeine , more caffeine must be consumed to get the same alertness . the main reason for that is :
light that is too short wavelength or high energy gets absorbed by the eye 's surface before it can even get to the retina , and light that is too long wavelength does n't have enough energy to stimulate our retina at all . the only thing that makes one kind of light different from another is its wavelength . radio waves have long wavelengths , while x-rays have short wavelengths .	the only thing that makes one kind of light different from another is its ________ .	the only thing that makes one kind of light different from another is its ________ .
in 2004 , using the hubble space telescope , scientists saw the eddies of a distant cloud of dust and gas around a star , and it reminded them of van gogh 's `` starry night . '' this motivated scientists from mexico , spain and england to study the luminance in van gogh 's paintings in detail . they discovered that there is a distinct pattern of turbulent fluid structures close to kolmogorov 's equation hidden in many of van gogh 's paintings . the researchers digitized the paintings , and measured how brightness varies between any two pixels .	write a short paragraph ( 3-5 sentences ) that summarizes the history of vincent van gogh . what challenges did he encounter as a painter ?	write a short paragraph ( 3-5 sentences ) that summarizes the history of vincent van gogh . what challenges did he encounter as a painter ?
the science of breathing has been around for thousands of years , from ancient yogis in india to respiratory therapists working with patients today . both would tell you that there are specific techniques that will help you improve your breathing . breathing is all about moving air from a higher-pressure to a lower-pressure environment . more breath means more oxygen , and ultimately a greater amount of nutrients that 's available for our cells and blood .	the scientific term for the process of breathing in air is :	the scientific term for the process of breathing in air is :
good question , lulu ! well , your hair obviously does n't remain the same and i 'm not just talking about the style each hair on your head is replaced every 2 to 7 years a hundred hairs fall out every day and new ones grow back in their place and look at your fingernails - they 're completely new every six months or so it turns out it 's just a matter of time before almost every part of your body refreshes itself in a similar way the lining of your stomach and intestines gets pretty beat up -- it 's constantly exposed to acid and bile and so those cells get replaced every few days every few weeks , your outer layer of skin is completely renewed every four months you have a fresh army of red blood cells a hundred million new cells are born every minute and a hundred million old cells are destroyed it 's actually the breakdown products of these red blood cells that turn your bruises and urine yellow every 10 years , you 've got a new skeleton a special team of cells breaks down old bone and another builds new bone every 15 years your muscles are refreshed you might think you gain and lose fat cells when you gain and lose weight but the actually just get bigger and smaller over the course of 25 years though , most of them turn over but there are a few things that stick around for your entire life about half of your heart stays with you from birth to death because those cells are replaced very slowly certain parts of your brain add a few new neurons over the course of your life but the vast majority of your neurons developed before you were born it 's the connections between those neurons -- the circuits that store memories -- that are constantly changing and there 's one more part of you that lasts your whole life months before you were born , a little cluster of cells stretched and filled themselves with transparent protein as you grew , even after birth , more and more fibers were added , but that center endured this is your lens the window through which you are watching this video right now and its core has remained the same since the moment you first opened your eyes so how old is your body really ? some of it is brand-new and some of it is as old as you are to learn how scientists figured all this out , check out our post at skunkbear.tumblr.com and listen to invisibilia -- the latest episode is about whether or not personality persists throughout your entire life if you have science questions send them our way and please subscribe to our channel !	approximately how many of your hairs fall out each day ?	approximately how many of your hairs fall out each day ?
good question , lulu ! well , your hair obviously does n't remain the same and i 'm not just talking about the style each hair on your head is replaced every 2 to 7 years a hundred hairs fall out every day and new ones grow back in their place and look at your fingernails - they 're completely new every six months or so it turns out it 's just a matter of time before almost every part of your body refreshes itself in a similar way the lining of your stomach and intestines gets pretty beat up -- it 's constantly exposed to acid and bile and so those cells get replaced every few days every few weeks , your outer layer of skin is completely renewed every four months you have a fresh army of red blood cells a hundred million new cells are born every minute and a hundred million old cells are destroyed it 's actually the breakdown products of these red blood cells that turn your bruises and urine yellow every 10 years , you 've got a new skeleton a special team of cells breaks down old bone and another builds new bone every 15 years your muscles are refreshed you might think you gain and lose fat cells when you gain and lose weight but the actually just get bigger and smaller over the course of 25 years though , most of them turn over but there are a few things that stick around for your entire life about half of your heart stays with you from birth to death because those cells are replaced very slowly certain parts of your brain add a few new neurons over the course of your life but the vast majority of your neurons developed before you were born it 's the connections between those neurons -- the circuits that store memories -- that are constantly changing and there 's one more part of you that lasts your whole life months before you were born , a little cluster of cells stretched and filled themselves with transparent protein as you grew , even after birth , more and more fibers were added , but that center endured this is your lens the window through which you are watching this video right now and its core has remained the same since the moment you first opened your eyes so how old is your body really ? some of it is brand-new and some of it is as old as you are to learn how scientists figured all this out , check out our post at skunkbear.tumblr.com and listen to invisibilia -- the latest episode is about whether or not personality persists throughout your entire life if you have science questions send them our way and please subscribe to our channel !	why do the cells lining your digestive system get replaced so frequently ?	why do the cells lining your digestive system get replaced so frequently ?
good question , lulu ! well , your hair obviously does n't remain the same and i 'm not just talking about the style each hair on your head is replaced every 2 to 7 years a hundred hairs fall out every day and new ones grow back in their place and look at your fingernails - they 're completely new every six months or so it turns out it 's just a matter of time before almost every part of your body refreshes itself in a similar way the lining of your stomach and intestines gets pretty beat up -- it 's constantly exposed to acid and bile and so those cells get replaced every few days every few weeks , your outer layer of skin is completely renewed every four months you have a fresh army of red blood cells a hundred million new cells are born every minute and a hundred million old cells are destroyed it 's actually the breakdown products of these red blood cells that turn your bruises and urine yellow every 10 years , you 've got a new skeleton a special team of cells breaks down old bone and another builds new bone every 15 years your muscles are refreshed you might think you gain and lose fat cells when you gain and lose weight but the actually just get bigger and smaller over the course of 25 years though , most of them turn over but there are a few things that stick around for your entire life about half of your heart stays with you from birth to death because those cells are replaced very slowly certain parts of your brain add a few new neurons over the course of your life but the vast majority of your neurons developed before you were born it 's the connections between those neurons -- the circuits that store memories -- that are constantly changing and there 's one more part of you that lasts your whole life months before you were born , a little cluster of cells stretched and filled themselves with transparent protein as you grew , even after birth , more and more fibers were added , but that center endured this is your lens the window through which you are watching this video right now and its core has remained the same since the moment you first opened your eyes so how old is your body really ? some of it is brand-new and some of it is as old as you are to learn how scientists figured all this out , check out our post at skunkbear.tumblr.com and listen to invisibilia -- the latest episode is about whether or not personality persists throughout your entire life if you have science questions send them our way and please subscribe to our channel !	when you gain or lose weight what is happening to your fat cells ?	when you gain or lose weight what is happening to your fat cells ?
good question , lulu ! well , your hair obviously does n't remain the same and i 'm not just talking about the style each hair on your head is replaced every 2 to 7 years a hundred hairs fall out every day and new ones grow back in their place and look at your fingernails - they 're completely new every six months or so it turns out it 's just a matter of time before almost every part of your body refreshes itself in a similar way the lining of your stomach and intestines gets pretty beat up -- it 's constantly exposed to acid and bile and so those cells get replaced every few days every few weeks , your outer layer of skin is completely renewed every four months you have a fresh army of red blood cells a hundred million new cells are born every minute and a hundred million old cells are destroyed it 's actually the breakdown products of these red blood cells that turn your bruises and urine yellow every 10 years , you 've got a new skeleton a special team of cells breaks down old bone and another builds new bone every 15 years your muscles are refreshed you might think you gain and lose fat cells when you gain and lose weight but the actually just get bigger and smaller over the course of 25 years though , most of them turn over but there are a few things that stick around for your entire life about half of your heart stays with you from birth to death because those cells are replaced very slowly certain parts of your brain add a few new neurons over the course of your life but the vast majority of your neurons developed before you were born it 's the connections between those neurons -- the circuits that store memories -- that are constantly changing and there 's one more part of you that lasts your whole life months before you were born , a little cluster of cells stretched and filled themselves with transparent protein as you grew , even after birth , more and more fibers were added , but that center endured this is your lens the window through which you are watching this video right now and its core has remained the same since the moment you first opened your eyes so how old is your body really ? some of it is brand-new and some of it is as old as you are to learn how scientists figured all this out , check out our post at skunkbear.tumblr.com and listen to invisibilia -- the latest episode is about whether or not personality persists throughout your entire life if you have science questions send them our way and please subscribe to our channel !	what is a part of your body that has remained intact since before you were born ?	what is a part of your body that has remained intact since before you were born ?
socializing , sexual behavior , and drugs are just a few examples of things and experiences that also activate the reward system . but overactivating this reward system kickstarts a series of unfortunate events : loss of control , craving , and increased tolerance to sugar . let 's get back to our bite of cereal .	using the information from the video , briefly describe how eating sugar can lead to greater cravings , loss of control , and increased tolerance .	using the information from the video , briefly describe how eating sugar can lead to greater cravings , loss of control , and increased tolerance .
the isthmus also became a barrier for many marine organisms , like mollusks , crustaceans , foraminifera , bryozoans , and fish , and separated the populations of many marine species . it also allowed the establishment of the thermohaline circulation , a global water conveyor belt , which transports warm water across the atlantic , and influences the climate of the east coast of north america , the west coast of europe , and many other areas . it 's a challenge to track all of the ways the collision of the americas changed the world , but it 's safe to say that the ripples of the great american biotic interchange have propagated through the history of life on the planet , and that of mankind .	the ocean circulation influences the climate in many areas of the world . what is the relationship between the warm waters of the caribbean and the climate in the east coast of north america and the west coast of europe ?	the ocean circulation influences the climate in many areas of the world . what is the relationship between the warm waters of the caribbean and the climate in the east coast of north america and the west coast of europe ?
get uniformitarian . maybe a process still active today caused changes not just in rocks but in life . it might also explain similarities and differences between species found by anatomists like steno . it 's a lot to ponder , but charles darwin had the time on a long trip to the galapagos , reading a copy of his friend charles lyell 's `` principles of geology , '' which steno sort of founded .	what biases did steno avoid , and are they still effective today ? what are the easy ways out to watch out for in doing intellectual work ?	what biases did steno avoid , and are they still effective today ? what are the easy ways out to watch out for in doing intellectual work ?
each of our thoughts is linked to other thoughts , memories , and emotions in a loose interconnected network , like a web . tim berners-lee , the father of the world wide web , understood that we needed a way to organize information that mirrored this natural arrangement . and the web accomplishes this through hyperlinks .	how does the web organize information so that it resembles the way we think ?	how does the web organize information so that it resembles the way we think ?
fortunately , business innovation spearheaded by the dutch east india company transformed the economic landscape in the netherlands . it created a merchant class and new type of patron . wishing to be represented in the paintings they financed , these merchants preferred middle class subjects depicted in spaces that looked like their own homes surrounded by familiar objects .	how does vermeer ’ s work memorialize the merchant class ?	how does vermeer ’ s work memorialize the merchant class ?
studying different wavelengths not only gives us a more complete picture of any single object but also different views of the universe . for this reason , astrophysicists use several different kinds of telescopes covering the spectrum from the infrared to the ultraviolet to the x-ray , from giant radio dishes to giant silver mirrors to space satellites , detecting light that would be otherwise blocked by the earth 's atmosphere . astrophysicists do n't just see the billions of stars among the billions of galaxies in the universe .	unlike optical telescopes , almost all x-ray and ultraviolet telescopes are space-based . they are launched above the earth ’ s atmosphere . why do you think these telescopes have to be above the atmosphere ? [ hint : what protects us from the sun ultraviolet radiation ? ]	unlike optical telescopes , almost all x-ray and ultraviolet telescopes are space-based . they are launched above the earth ’ s atmosphere . why do you think these telescopes have to be above the atmosphere ? [ hint : what protects us from the sun ultraviolet radiation ? ]
the answer is there is a neutron in nucleus spontaneously changed into a proton , which stayed behind , and the electron flew out as a beta particle . this is not what chemistry has taught us to expect . the nucleus is supposed to be stable .	chemistry has taught us to expect stable nuclei .	chemistry has taught us to expect stable nuclei .
your friend doubles over with laughter and says , `` it 's so ridiculous ! so ironic ! '' well , quick , what do you do ?	a situation is only ironic if what happens is ___________ .	a situation is only ironic if what happens is ___________ .
your friend doubles over with laughter and says , `` it 's so ridiculous ! so ironic ! '' well , quick , what do you do ?	an example of an ironic popular song is `` when i 'm 64 '' by the beatles . it 's ironic for several reasons . one , only two of the four beatles actually made it to 64. two , paul mccartney had a pretty difficult 64th year of life ( that 's the year he divorced his wife , heather mills ) . what about alanis morissette 's song `` ironic '' ? are any of her examples actually irony ? pick another song that you think is ironic and explain why .	an example of an ironic popular song is `` when i 'm 64 '' by the beatles . it 's ironic for several reasons . one , only two of the four beatles actually made it to 64. two , paul mccartney had a pretty difficult 64th year of life ( that 's the year he divorced his wife , heather mills ) . what about alanis morissette 's song `` ironic '' ? are any of her examples actually irony ? pick another song that you think is ironic and explain why .
your friend doubles over with laughter and says , `` it 's so ridiculous ! so ironic ! '' well , quick , what do you do ?	have you ever misinterpreted a situation as ironic ? explain the situation and why you thought it was ironic .	have you ever misinterpreted a situation as ironic ? explain the situation and why you thought it was ironic .
but unlike most mirrors , which present you with an outside view of yourself embedded in a place , these mirrors come back empty . john green : it makes me nostalgic for the days when you could see the pixels in online video . ( laughter ) ze is n't just a great public intellectual , he 's also a brilliant community builder , and the community of people that built up around these videos was in many ways a community of learners , so we played ze frank at chess collaboratively , and we beat him .	what did the four videos that john green played during his talk have in common ?	what did the four videos that john green played during his talk have in common ?
but unlike most mirrors , which present you with an outside view of yourself embedded in a place , these mirrors come back empty . john green : it makes me nostalgic for the days when you could see the pixels in online video . ( laughter ) ze is n't just a great public intellectual , he 's also a brilliant community builder , and the community of people that built up around these videos was in many ways a community of learners , so we played ze frank at chess collaboratively , and we beat him .	at the beginning of his talk , john green thought of his learning as analogous to what profession ?	at the beginning of his talk , john green thought of his learning as analogous to what profession ?
they 're always used to compare one thing to something else . so , on that hot summer day , the air molecules have more kinetic energy than the molecules in your skin . so , when those air molecules crash into you , they transfer some of their energy to the molecules in your skin , and you feel that as heat . on a cold day , the air molecules have less kinetic energy than the molecules in your skin , so when you crash into those air molecules , you actually transfer some of your kinetic energy to them , and you feel that as cold . you can trace the path of energy around you .	look closely at the air molecules colliding with your skin at 2:20. other than seeing the red patch of “ heat ” that appears on the skin where the molecules collide with it , how could you tell whether the air molecules have more or less kinetic energy than the skin ? you may wish to compare the case at 2:20 with the case at 2:28 .	look closely at the air molecules colliding with your skin at 2:20. other than seeing the red patch of “ heat ” that appears on the skin where the molecules collide with it , how could you tell whether the air molecules have more or less kinetic energy than the skin ? you may wish to compare the case at 2:20 with the case at 2:28 .
as difficult as turbulence is to understand mathematically , we can use art to depict the way it looks . in june 1889 , vincent van gogh painted the view just before sunrise from the window of his room at the saint-paul-de-mausole asylum in saint-rémy-de-provence , where he 'd admitted himself after mutilating his own ear in a psychotic episode . in `` the starry night , '' his circular brushstrokes create a night sky filled with swirling clouds and eddies of stars . van gogh and other impressionists represented light in a different way than their predecessors , seeming to capture its motion , for instance , across sun-dappled waters , or here in star light that twinkles and melts through milky waves of blue night sky .	where was vincent van gogh located when he painted `` starry night '' ?	where was vincent van gogh located when he painted `` starry night '' ?
and here 's a question . could you theoretically kick a ball hard enough to make it boomerang all the way around back to you ? sadly , no .	can a soccer ball be boomeranged back to the player ?	can a soccer ball be boomeranged back to the player ?
obviously einsteinium has a slight resonance for me because many people think that i look like einstein , though of course einstein , when he was young , looked nothing like me . einsteinium , the first time that was discovered was actually in the debris of a nuclear bomb , which has then prompted people to make it in a more rational and less destructive method ever since . as far as i know that , einsteinium has absolutely nothing to do with einstein , it just that people suddenly decided that they would name elements after famous scientists because they , they had run out of names of america and places like that .	where was einsteinium first observed ?	where was einsteinium first observed ?
these intervals are grouped together into pre-reproductive ( 0-14 ) , reproductive ( 15-44 ) , and post-reproductive years ( 45 and up ) . such a population pyramid can be a powerful predictor of future population trends . for example , rwanda 's population pyramid shows it to be a fast-growing country , with most of the population being in the youngest age groups at the bottom of the pyramid .	according to the population reference bureau 's `` 2013 world population data sheet '' , 271 are born every minute , and 106 die every minute . that 's a global net population increase of 165 per minute . this lesson was published on may 5th . what 's the estimated global population increase exactly one week later ( may 12th ) .	according to the population reference bureau 's `` 2013 world population data sheet '' , 271 are born every minute , and 106 die every minute . that 's a global net population increase of 165 per minute . this lesson was published on may 5th . what 's the estimated global population increase exactly one week later ( may 12th ) .
these intervals are grouped together into pre-reproductive ( 0-14 ) , reproductive ( 15-44 ) , and post-reproductive years ( 45 and up ) . such a population pyramid can be a powerful predictor of future population trends . for example , rwanda 's population pyramid shows it to be a fast-growing country , with most of the population being in the youngest age groups at the bottom of the pyramid .	factors that can alter the trend represented by a population pyramid include :	factors that can alter the trend represented by a population pyramid include :
these intervals are grouped together into pre-reproductive ( 0-14 ) , reproductive ( 15-44 ) , and post-reproductive years ( 45 and up ) . such a population pyramid can be a powerful predictor of future population trends . for example , rwanda 's population pyramid shows it to be a fast-growing country , with most of the population being in the youngest age groups at the bottom of the pyramid .	what does a population pyramid not give you information about ?	what does a population pyramid not give you information about ?
so they need matchmaker pollinators to transport their pollen grains to flowers of the same plant species , and they pay these pollinators with food . today , around 170,000 plant species receive pollination services from more than 200,000 pollinator species . pollinators include many species of bees , butterflies , moths , flies , wasps , beetles , even birds and bats , who together help pollinate many species of trees , shrubs and other flowering plants .	today , around ________ plant species receive pollination services from more than 200,000 pollinator species .	today , around ________ plant species receive pollination services from more than 200,000 pollinator species .
there 's a lot we still do n't know about exactly how this happens . several common anesthetics bind to the gaba-a receptor in the brain 's neurons . they hold the gateway open , letting negatively charged particles flow into the cell .	several common anesthetics bind to this receptor in the brain to cause sedation	several common anesthetics bind to this receptor in the brain to cause sedation
there 's a lot we still do n't know about exactly how this happens . several common anesthetics bind to the gaba-a receptor in the brain 's neurons . they hold the gateway open , letting negatively charged particles flow into the cell .	the above receptor uses this ion gradient in order to cause sedation	the above receptor uses this ion gradient in order to cause sedation
in natural environments , seed coats are worn down by cold temperatures , bacteria , or even animal digestion . our scarification methods just mimick and accelerate these natural processes to increase the chances of successful germination . one technique we can use is called nicking .	what hypothesis might explain why some methods of scarification germinated better than other methods ?	what hypothesis might explain why some methods of scarification germinated better than other methods ?
in natural environments , seed coats are worn down by cold temperatures , bacteria , or even animal digestion . our scarification methods just mimick and accelerate these natural processes to increase the chances of successful germination . one technique we can use is called nicking .	discuss how the man-made methods of scarification are related to the methods of scarification found in nature .	discuss how the man-made methods of scarification are related to the methods of scarification found in nature .
spirits were high at least when the first christmas came by . both forces climbed out of their trenches to celebrate christmas together , talk , share stories and play football . when christmas ended , they would climb back into their trenches to become enemies once again . conditions in the trenches were dreadful . soldiers in france and belgium found their feet rotting away from the constant damp .	name one of the dangers of the trenches .	name one of the dangers of the trenches .
though certain theories were built on the idea of invisible atoms , some prominent scientists still believed them to be a useful fiction , rather than actual physical objects . but einstein used an ingenious argument , showing that the behavior of small particles randomly moving around in a liquid , known as brownian motion , could be precisely predicted by the collisions of millions of invisible atoms . experiments soon confirmed einstein 's model , and atomic skeptics threw in the towel .	einstein 's second `` miracle year '' paper , in may 1905 , showed that _____ could explain the so-called `` brownian motion '' behavior of small particles randomly moving around in a liquid .	einstein 's second `` miracle year '' paper , in may 1905 , showed that _____ could explain the so-called `` brownian motion '' behavior of small particles randomly moving around in a liquid .
and another promising possible approach is to transplant healthy human neural stem cells , which are cultured in a laboratory , to injured tissue , like we can do with skin . scientists are currently experimenting to determine whether transplanted donor cells can divide , differentiate and successfully give rise to new neurons in a damaged brain . they 've also discovered that we might be able to teach other kinds of brain cells , such as astrocytes or oligodendrocytes to behave like neural stem cells and start generating neurons , too . so , a couple of decades from now will our brains be able to self-repair ?	what would be the advantage of generating new neurons from astrocytes or oligodendrocytes within the brain instead of using donor cell transplantation ?	what would be the advantage of generating new neurons from astrocytes or oligodendrocytes within the brain instead of using donor cell transplantation ?
so how do you keep track of these results ? that 's where the marker comes in . mark the eight authentic coins with a zero .	what is the significance of the marker in the riddle ?	what is the significance of the marker in the riddle ?
whether it 's safe to manufacture teflon is another story . dupont and its spin-off company chemours now face lawsuits worth millions of dollars . they 've been accused of polluting the environment for decades and exposing employees and local communities to health risks associated with a toxic chemical called pfoa .	the companies dupont and chemours currently face lawsuits worth millions of dollars with regard to a particular chemical involved in producing teflon . what is that chemical ?	the companies dupont and chemours currently face lawsuits worth millions of dollars with regard to a particular chemical involved in producing teflon . what is that chemical ?
to figure out the answer , let 's look at one way a mathematician might calculate the odds of a birthday match . we can use a field of mathematics known as combinatorics , which deals with the likelihoods of different combinations . the first step is to flip the problem .	the mathematical study of combinations of objects in groups is known as :	the mathematical study of combinations of objects in groups is known as :
so already , unless you have an incredibly insulating jacket , your chances of survival are looking pretty slim . during this time , you may also have bumped into one of your earliest human ancestors -- homo habilis . this species looked more like apes than humans , but were able to walk on their back legs and use their hands to make stone tools , hence its name , which means “ handy man ” .	describe the basic traits of homo habilis .	describe the basic traits of homo habilis .
they 're actually a simulation of the experience of dyslexia , designed to make you decode each word . those with dyslexia experience that laborious pace every time they read . when most people think of dyslexia , they think of seeing letters and words backwards , like seeing `` b '' as `` d '' and vice versa , or they might think people with dyslexia see `` saw '' as `` was '' .	students with dyslexia struggle with decoding when they read a new text . you experienced that during this video for one to two minutes . what do you think the repercussions would be for students who experience difficulty reading each and every time they attempt it ?	students with dyslexia struggle with decoding when they read a new text . you experienced that during this video for one to two minutes . what do you think the repercussions would be for students who experience difficulty reading each and every time they attempt it ?
so , that 's the geometry . to make equations and numbers , we again introduce a coordinate system , and if we know the coordinates of a and b , we can easily compute the coordinates of m just by averaging . you now know enough to work at pixar .	if point a has coordinates ( 1,2 ) and b has coordinates ( 3,4 ) , then the midpoint of the line segment ab has coordinates :	if point a has coordinates ( 1,2 ) and b has coordinates ( 3,4 ) , then the midpoint of the line segment ab has coordinates :
so , that 's the geometry . to make equations and numbers , we again introduce a coordinate system , and if we know the coordinates of a and b , we can easily compute the coordinates of m just by averaging . you now know enough to work at pixar .	if point a has coordinates ( 1,2 ) , and the midpoint of the line segment ab has coordinates ( 5,6 ) , what are the coordinates of b ?	if point a has coordinates ( 1,2 ) , and the midpoint of the line segment ab has coordinates ( 5,6 ) , what are the coordinates of b ?
cells with compromised dna are supposed to self-destruct , but some damaged cells ignore this order , replicating uncontrollably , even as they lose their original function . these are what we know as cancer cells . it is not yet clear why leukemia is the most common childhood cancer , but one contributing factor may be that leukemias are often caused by just one or two dna modifications , while most cancers require many of them , allowing leukemias to arise faster than other types of cancer . moreover , some dna alterations can occur in white blood cells during fetal development , further increasing the risk of early leukemia .	leukemia is the most common childhood cancer . what are the hypotheses scientists formulated to explain this observation ?	leukemia is the most common childhood cancer . what are the hypotheses scientists formulated to explain this observation ?
some , like many of the b complex vitamins , make up coenzymes , whose job it is to help enzymes release the energy from food . other b vitamins then help the body to use that energy . from vitamin c , you get the ability to fight infection and make collagen , a kind of tissue that forms bones and teeth and heals wounds .	make a chart of all five of the vitamins and the role of each in the body .	make a chart of all five of the vitamins and the role of each in the body .
some , like many of the b complex vitamins , make up coenzymes , whose job it is to help enzymes release the energy from food . other b vitamins then help the body to use that energy . from vitamin c , you get the ability to fight infection and make collagen , a kind of tissue that forms bones and teeth and heals wounds .	which benefits can vitamins provide our body ?	which benefits can vitamins provide our body ?
there are other groups of animals that also have genetic sex determination , but their systems can be pretty different from ours . birds and some reptiles have their sex genetically determined , but instead of the sex being determined by dad , their sex is determined by mom . in those groups , a pair of z sex chromosomes produces a male , so these males only have z 's to give .	in ants and other highly social insects , sex is determined by :	in ants and other highly social insects , sex is determined by :
it 's highest during systole , when the heart contracts to force blood through the arteries . this is your systolic blood pressure . when the heart is at rest between beats , blood pressure falls to its lowest value , the diastolic pressure . a typical healthy individual produces a systolic pressure between 90 and 120 millimeters of mercury , and diastolic pressure between 60 and 80 .	during what phase of the cardiac cycle is blood pressure typically lowest ?	during what phase of the cardiac cycle is blood pressure typically lowest ?
at first glance , the idea of a machine creating high quality , original music in this way might seem impossible . we could come up with an extremely complex algorithm using random number generators , chaotic functions , and fuzzy logic to generate a sequence of musical notes in a way that would be impossible to track . but although this would yield countless original melodies never heard before , only a tiny fraction of them would be worth listening to .	name a computational approach that could lead to outcomes that would be impossible , or very difficult for humans to track .	name a computational approach that could lead to outcomes that would be impossible , or very difficult for humans to track .
but if that 's consistently true , why the huge variance in aging patterns and lifespan within the animal kingdom ? the answer lies in several factors , including environment and body size . these can place powerful evolutionary pressures on animals to adapt , which in turn makes the aging process different across species .	how and why does body size influence species longevity ?	how and why does body size influence species longevity ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar the human eye is one of the most powerful machines on the planet . it 's like a 500 megapixel camera that can run in bright light , in near darkness , and even under water , though not real well . it communicates to our brains so much about the world .	what might this phrase mean : `` the camera never lies . ''	what might this phrase mean : `` the camera never lies . ''
how many of you guys know that song ? it 's a great track . now , what exactly does a dj do ?	plante says that the thing that 's great about djing is that you can ________ .	plante says that the thing that 's great about djing is that you can ________ .
[ ♪ native music ♪ ] for me its really about passion because i love soccer . i love soccer . it just really ...	in the united states , the sport is called soccer . in africa , europe , latin america and the rest of the world , the sport is referred to as fútbol .	in the united states , the sport is called soccer . in africa , europe , latin america and the rest of the world , the sport is referred to as fútbol .
instead , it violently and abruptly forces sections of the mediterranean upwards in an event called uplift , and crete is in uplift central . in the year 2014 , crete had more than 1300 earthquakes of magnitude 2.0 or higher . by comparison , in the same period of time , southern california , a much larger area , experienced a mere 255 earthquakes .	roughly how many more earthquakes did crete experience in 2014 than all of southern california ?	roughly how many more earthquakes did crete experience in 2014 than all of southern california ?
instead , it violently and abruptly forces sections of the mediterranean upwards in an event called uplift , and crete is in uplift central . in the year 2014 , crete had more than 1300 earthquakes of magnitude 2.0 or higher . by comparison , in the same period of time , southern california , a much larger area , experienced a mere 255 earthquakes .	what solid evidence do we have that crete was rocked by terrible earthquakes long ago ?	what solid evidence do we have that crete was rocked by terrible earthquakes long ago ?
how can something that seems so simple be the key to keeping us alive ? breathing starts with the environment around us . the air we breathe in , or inspire , has a mixture of gases including nitrogen , carbon dioxide and oxygen , which is the most important for our survival . it enters our body through the nose and mouth , moves down into the pharynx , trachea and bronchial tubes , and ultimately reaches the alveoli air sacs in the lungs .	the word ‘ inspire ’ means to breathe in new air . we say we ’ re inspired when we come up with a great idea or get a burst of energy to start a project . those dynamic moments rarely hit us when we are stressed or tense , but instead tend to happen when we ’ re relaxed and at ease . why do you think we need to breathe comfortably to let in new ideas ? what are the circumstances and surroundings that ‘ inspire ’ you to create and be yourself ?	the word ‘ inspire ’ means to breathe in new air . we say we ’ re inspired when we come up with a great idea or get a burst of energy to start a project . those dynamic moments rarely hit us when we are stressed or tense , but instead tend to happen when we ’ re relaxed and at ease . why do you think we need to breathe comfortably to let in new ideas ? what are the circumstances and surroundings that ‘ inspire ’ you to create and be yourself ?
and as you 're walking through the forest , what you see , the trees , the roots , the mushrooms , are just the tip of the iceberg . under a single footstep , there are 300 miles of fungal cells stacked end on end moving stuff around . and if you could look down into the ground , it would be like this super highway with cars going everywhere .	under a single footstep in the forest , there are ________ .	under a single footstep in the forest , there are ________ .
a study in plos one , however , that benefit seems to fall on men who fidgeted . the fidgeting men they tested performed better on cognitive tests and had lower stress , but fidgeting women did neither . another study with adhd kids further muddies the fidgeting waters , as fidgeting does n't help everyone all the time .	do you fidget or doodle ? why do you think that some students perform better when fidgeting or doodling ? do you ?	do you fidget or doodle ? why do you think that some students perform better when fidgeting or doodling ? do you ?
where it really starts to get interesting , though , is how the story 's told . each chapter is written in a different style . 15 is a play , 13 is like a cheesy romance novel , 12 is a story with bizarre , exaggerated interruptions , 11 uses techniques , like onomatopoeia , repetitions , and alliteration to imitate music , and 14 reproduces the evolution of english literary prose style , from its beginnings in anglo-saxon right up to the 20th century . that all culminates in the final chapter which follows molly 's stream of consciousness as it spools out in just eight long paragraphs with almost no punctuation .	which chapter is set like a play ?	which chapter is set like a play ?
one night , the unthinkable happens . the night manager looks outside and sees an infinite line of infinitely large buses , each with a countably infinite number of passengers . what can he do ?	why can ’ t the manager find rooms for everyone if the number of guests is not “ countably ” infinite ?	why can ’ t the manager find rooms for everyone if the number of guests is not “ countably ” infinite ?
i mean , really small -- smaller than the tip of a sewing needle . then we can take a journey inside a single cell to find out what makes up the book of you , your genome . the first thing we see is that the whole genome , all your dna , is contained inside its own tiny compartment , called the nucleus .	the entire genome ( or , `` the book of you '' ) is contained inside the _________ of the cell .	the entire genome ( or , `` the book of you '' ) is contained inside the _________ of the cell .
so , as far as we know , there have never been human-bull hybrids . but the earliest material written about the minotaur does n't even mention its physical form . so that 's probably not the key part of the story .	where did the ancient greeks believe the minotaur lived ?	where did the ancient greeks believe the minotaur lived ?
because of the incredible design , each dive provides the blue whale with 90 times as much energy as is used . every mouthful of krill provides almost 480,000 calories , the same amount you get from eating 1,900 hamburgers . but , why are blue whales so big ?	every mouthful of krill provides the blue whale with _______ calories ( the same amount you would get from eating _______ hamburgers ) .	every mouthful of krill provides the blue whale with _______ calories ( the same amount you would get from eating _______ hamburgers ) .
if the experience was strong enough , or we recall it periodically in the first few days , the hippocampus then transfers the memory back to the cortex for permanent storage . h.m. 's mind could form the initial impressions , but without a hippocampus to perform this memory consolidation , they eroded , like messages scrawled in sand . but this was not the only memory distinction milner found .	once dr. scoville removed h.m. ’ s hippocampus , henry ’ s brain could no longer perform memory consolidation . how did henry ’ s life change ? do you think it affected his quality of life ? was the cost to henry ’ s memory worth the benefits to his health ?	once dr. scoville removed h.m. ’ s hippocampus , henry ’ s brain could no longer perform memory consolidation . how did henry ’ s life change ? do you think it affected his quality of life ? was the cost to henry ’ s memory worth the benefits to his health ?
when communicating , one person expresses her interpretation of a message , and the person she 's communicating with hears his own interpretation of that message . our perceptual filters continually shift meanings and interpretations . remember that game of catch ?	which of the following influences our perceptual filters ?	which of the following influences our perceptual filters ?
see how many unique loops you can find , and keep in mind that these two are considered the same , they just start at different points . these two , however , are different . we can visualize the eight distinct three-box loops using triangles .	can you suggest a different solution whose success rate is higher than ( 1/2 ) 20 , but not necessarily as high as 30 % ?	can you suggest a different solution whose success rate is higher than ( 1/2 ) 20 , but not necessarily as high as 30 % ?
in fact , our last common ancestor was a simple worm-like creature that lived more than 500 million years ago . so how did we end up with such similar brain structures when our evolution took almost entirely different paths ? scientists call this phenomenon convergent evolution .	the sense of smell in insects and humans has evolved via different paths from different origins , and yet the brain structures dedicated to it are very similar . this is a prime example of convergent evolution . can you think of other examples of convergent evolution in the animal kingdom ?	the sense of smell in insects and humans has evolved via different paths from different origins , and yet the brain structures dedicated to it are very similar . this is a prime example of convergent evolution . can you think of other examples of convergent evolution in the animal kingdom ?
this gave humanity knowledge and power , but for tampering with the status quo , prometheus was chained to a rock and eaten by vultures for eternity . prometheus enjoyed a resurgence in the literature of the romantic period during the 18th century . mary was a prominent romantic , and shared the movement 's appreciation for nature , emotion , and the purity of art .	an aspect of the shelleys ' writing which places them in the category of romantic writers is the presence of ___ in their writing .	an aspect of the shelleys ' writing which places them in the category of romantic writers is the presence of ___ in their writing .
when the cells of a body are n't getting the oxygen they need , the nutrients available to the body decrease and toxins build up in the blood . it is thought that a hypoxic , or oxygen-poor environment , can increase cancerous cells . the good news is that we can control our breath much more than we realize .	what does a ‘ hypoxic ’ cell environment mean ?	what does a ‘ hypoxic ’ cell environment mean ?
so blue is often perceived to be the colour of solvated or unpaired electrons , and you can see here the lovely blue colour . now lots of chemists are really scared when they see the blue of liquid oxygen , because liquid oxygen is very , very reactive . generally you only make liquid oxygen by mistake .	you can use an electric current to obtain oxygen and hydrogen from water . what is this process called ?	you can use an electric current to obtain oxygen and hydrogen from water . what is this process called ?
so blue is often perceived to be the colour of solvated or unpaired electrons , and you can see here the lovely blue colour . now lots of chemists are really scared when they see the blue of liquid oxygen , because liquid oxygen is very , very reactive . generally you only make liquid oxygen by mistake .	`` last night i had a horrible nightmare ” , said the organic chemist to the theoretical one . “ i could see the blue color of liquid oxygen ! ” why is this beautiful liquid so feared by organic chemists ?	`` last night i had a horrible nightmare ” , said the organic chemist to the theoretical one . “ i could see the blue color of liquid oxygen ! ” why is this beautiful liquid so feared by organic chemists ?
so blue is often perceived to be the colour of solvated or unpaired electrons , and you can see here the lovely blue colour . now lots of chemists are really scared when they see the blue of liquid oxygen , because liquid oxygen is very , very reactive . generally you only make liquid oxygen by mistake .	what does the professor demonstrate to his university students with a magnet and a test tube full of liquid oxygen ?	what does the professor demonstrate to his university students with a magnet and a test tube full of liquid oxygen ?
so blue is often perceived to be the colour of solvated or unpaired electrons , and you can see here the lovely blue colour . now lots of chemists are really scared when they see the blue of liquid oxygen , because liquid oxygen is very , very reactive . generally you only make liquid oxygen by mistake .	we need oxygen to live . when we breathe , the oxygen , contained within the air , is distributed throughout our bodies by our arteries . oxygen is carried by red blood cells . these red blood cells are linked to a metalloprotein , which have an iron atom in its middle . what is the name of this molecule ?	we need oxygen to live . when we breathe , the oxygen , contained within the air , is distributed throughout our bodies by our arteries . oxygen is carried by red blood cells . these red blood cells are linked to a metalloprotein , which have an iron atom in its middle . what is the name of this molecule ?
brand had unknowingly isolated phosphorous from his urine . it was the first time anyone had discovered an element , but he did n't really understand what he had done . at the time of brand , the concept of element had not been discovered .	what was the first element to be `` discovered '' ?	what was the first element to be `` discovered '' ?
ok , we 're halfway done . the sixth and seventh amendments are about how the legal system works . if you 're accused of a crime , you have the right to a speedy public trial and an impartial jury .	the sixth and seventh amendments are about :	the sixth and seventh amendments are about :
so , while the subordinates are quite capable of balancing two complete sentences when carrying the weight on both sides , they 're having trouble picking just one up . the comma rushes over to help the struggling subordinates , but how will she help ? when subordinates begin sentences , the comma will place herself directly after the first thought or complete sentence .	punctuation helps writers and readers to communicate more effectively . however , punctuation is only one aspect of creating and maintaining clear communication . what other things/practices help or hinder the communication process ?	punctuation helps writers and readers to communicate more effectively . however , punctuation is only one aspect of creating and maintaining clear communication . what other things/practices help or hinder the communication process ?
after thinking long and hard , you tell the crowd , `` at least one of you has green eyes . '' the dictator is suspicious but reassures himself that your statement could n't have changed anything . you leave , and life on the island seems to go on as before .	what was it about your statement that tricked the dictator into allowing you to say it ?	what was it about your statement that tricked the dictator into allowing you to say it ?
after thinking long and hard , you tell the crowd , `` at least one of you has green eyes . '' the dictator is suspicious but reassures himself that your statement could n't have changed anything . you leave , and life on the island seems to go on as before .	what was it about your statement that changed the situation on the island ?	what was it about your statement that changed the situation on the island ?
leading the charge was a physician named dr. john snow . dr . snow observed that cholera-infected patients experienced severe vomiting and diarrhea , symptoms of the gut as opposed to the lungs , and thought that perhaps the disease was transmitted through food or drink , not the air .	what was a symptom of cholera that made dr. snow suspect that the disease was transmitted through drinking contaminated water ?	what was a symptom of cholera that made dr. snow suspect that the disease was transmitted through drinking contaminated water ?
leading the charge was a physician named dr. john snow . dr . snow observed that cholera-infected patients experienced severe vomiting and diarrhea , symptoms of the gut as opposed to the lungs , and thought that perhaps the disease was transmitted through food or drink , not the air .	which of the following examples supported dr. snow 's case against miasma theory ?	which of the following examples supported dr. snow 's case against miasma theory ?
leading the charge was a physician named dr. john snow . dr . snow observed that cholera-infected patients experienced severe vomiting and diarrhea , symptoms of the gut as opposed to the lungs , and thought that perhaps the disease was transmitted through food or drink , not the air .	though dr. snow made a good argument for germ theory , what are some ways he could have made his case stronger ?	though dr. snow made a good argument for germ theory , what are some ways he could have made his case stronger ?
what makes a good horror story ? sure , you could throw in some hideous monsters , fountains of blood , and things jumping out from every corner , but as classic horror author h.p . lovecraft wrote , `` the oldest and strongest kind of fear is fear of the unknown . '' and writers harness that fear not by revealing horrors , but by leaving the audience hanging in anticipation of them .	what did classic horror author h.p . lovecraft say creates the strongest kind of fear in a horror story ?	what did classic horror author h.p . lovecraft say creates the strongest kind of fear in a horror story ?
scientists today believe that broca 's area is responsible in part for naming objects and coordinating the muscles involved in speech . behind broca 's area is wernicke 's area near the auditory cortex . that 's where the brain attaches meaning to speech sounds .	what is “ broca ’ s area ” and how was it discovered ?	what is “ broca ’ s area ” and how was it discovered ?
but what makes for good deliberative rhetoric , besides the future tense ? according to aristotle , there are three persuasive appeals : ethos , logos , and pathos . ethos is how you convince an audience of your credibility .	the most persuasive , but often least ethical , rhetorical appeal is :	the most persuasive , but often least ethical , rhetorical appeal is :
but what makes for good deliberative rhetoric , besides the future tense ? according to aristotle , there are three persuasive appeals : ethos , logos , and pathos . ethos is how you convince an audience of your credibility .	according to aristotle , to build your credibility ( or ethos ) you should focus on your :	according to aristotle , to build your credibility ( or ethos ) you should focus on your :
more aluminum than potassium ; about the same or perhaps even more than iron . we 're never going to run out of aluminium . the problem with aluminium is that you do n't find aluminium metal in nature as a metal . it 's always tied up with other compounds ; mostly with oxygen , in clays .	why do the professor ’ s students find aluminium oxide ( alumina ) such a useful catalyst ?	why do the professor ’ s students find aluminium oxide ( alumina ) such a useful catalyst ?
but before you waste a ton of graph paper , you should know that a true hamiltonian path is n't possible with these end points . that 's because the rooms form a grid with an even number of rooms on each side . in any grid with that configuration , a hamiltonian path that starts and ends in opposite corners is impossible .	why can ’ t you go directly from the northwest corner to the southeast corner if there are an even number of rooms on each side ?	why can ’ t you go directly from the northwest corner to the southeast corner if there are an even number of rooms on each side ?
babies ' spines just have one curve like a `` c. '' the other curves usually develop by 12-18 months as the muscles strengthen . these curves help us stay upright and absorb some of the stress from activities like walking and jumping . if they are aligned properly , when you 're standing up , you should be able to draw a straight line from a point just in front of your shoulders , to behind your hip , to the front of your knee , to a few inches in front of your ankle .	which accessories are available to help people work comfortably in an office ?	which accessories are available to help people work comfortably in an office ?
these observations are simplistic . they do n't acknowledge all the different forces that contribute to what the character has done . try something like this instead , `` a culture of slavery disturbs the ability to determine what is morally right .	using that same text as a case study , acknowledge some complexity . think of the main struggle that your character goes through as the story progresses . what different social forces contribute to the complicated situation that the character is in ? describe these forces ( they may be large or small , internal or external ) , discussing the way that they push or pull on the character ’ s choices and actions .	using that same text as a case study , acknowledge some complexity . think of the main struggle that your character goes through as the story progresses . what different social forces contribute to the complicated situation that the character is in ? describe these forces ( they may be large or small , internal or external ) , discussing the way that they push or pull on the character ’ s choices and actions .
this will leave x isolated on the right side of the equation . 150 miles divided by 2 hours is 75 miles over 1 hour . mark 's rate is 75 miles per hour . that 's what mph means .	if you had to drive to work 26 miles away and the speed limit was 35 miles per hour , about how many minutes would it take you to get to work ?	if you had to drive to work 26 miles away and the speed limit was 35 miles per hour , about how many minutes would it take you to get to work ?
one of the main reasons astronauts must exercise constantly in orbit is due to the lack of skeletal strain in free fall . as projected by wolff 's law , that makes osteoclasts more active than osteoblasts , resulting in a loss of bone mass and strength . when bones do break , your body has an amazing ability to reconstruct the injured bone as if the break had never happened . certain situations , like cancer removal , traumatic accidents , and genetic defects exceed the body 's natural ability for repair .	how do osteoclasts break down the bone ?	how do osteoclasts break down the bone ?
one of the main reasons astronauts must exercise constantly in orbit is due to the lack of skeletal strain in free fall . as projected by wolff 's law , that makes osteoclasts more active than osteoblasts , resulting in a loss of bone mass and strength . when bones do break , your body has an amazing ability to reconstruct the injured bone as if the break had never happened . certain situations , like cancer removal , traumatic accidents , and genetic defects exceed the body 's natural ability for repair .	why are osteoclasts , cells that break down bones , actually important in bone growth ?	why are osteoclasts , cells that break down bones , actually important in bone growth ?
smaller animals could n't swallow the avocado 's huge seed , but the sloths could , and they spread avocado trees far and wide . ground sloths flourished for millions of years , but around 10,000 years ago , they started disappearing along with the western hemisphere 's other giant mammals . researchers think that ground sloths could have been pushed out by an oncoming ice age , or competition with other species , maybe humans , who arrived in the region around the time most of the sloths went extinct .	why do researchers think ground sloths started disappearing 10,000 years ago ?	why do researchers think ground sloths started disappearing 10,000 years ago ?
smaller animals could n't swallow the avocado 's huge seed , but the sloths could , and they spread avocado trees far and wide . ground sloths flourished for millions of years , but around 10,000 years ago , they started disappearing along with the western hemisphere 's other giant mammals . researchers think that ground sloths could have been pushed out by an oncoming ice age , or competition with other species , maybe humans , who arrived in the region around the time most of the sloths went extinct .	ninety percent of sloth genera became extinct around 10,000 years ago . how can we conserve the six sloth species that are alive today ?	ninety percent of sloth genera became extinct around 10,000 years ago . how can we conserve the six sloth species that are alive today ?
after four decades , germany was officially reunified in october 1990 . and the soviet union fell soon after . today , parts of the wall still stand as a reminder that any barriers we put up to impede freedom , we can also break down .	the wall fell because :	the wall fell because :
the desert naturally mummified some corpses , which influenced their religious beliefs : you need to preserve the body to reach the afterlife , and when you get there you ’ ll need all your stuff . rich people ’ s graves had nicer stuff , and they needed to protect their afterlife investment . first with simple mounds , and later with mud brick “ eternal houses ” .	pyramids evolved from mounds piled on top of rich egyptians ' graves that originally served what function ?	pyramids evolved from mounds piled on top of rich egyptians ' graves that originally served what function ?
hawking suspected that any extraterrestrial life probably was n't any more complex than microbes , but he warned that if an advanced alien species did visit earth , it could be as catastrophic as christopher columbus 's arrival was for the native americans . meanwhile , the golden records continue their journeys . in 1990 , both voyager spacecraft passed beyond the orbit of pluto .	the committee that selected the contents of the golden records on the voyager spacecraft was chaired by :	the committee that selected the contents of the golden records on the voyager spacecraft was chaired by :
and what was remarkable about this day is , by sheer coincidence , one of the medevac medics happened to have a gopro camera on his helmet and captured the whole scene on camera . it shows captain swenson and his comrade bringing this wounded soldier who had received a gunshot to the neck . they put him in the helicopter , and then you see captain swenson bend over and give him a kiss before he turns around to rescue more .	what did captain william d. swenson do to the wounded soldier just before he turned around to rescue more people ?	what did captain william d. swenson do to the wounded soldier just before he turned around to rescue more people ?
this is the inverse of the period , which is how many seconds it takes to complete one cycle . and a building 's natural frequency , determined by its mass and stiffness , is the frequency that its vibrations will tend to cluster around . increasing a building 's mass slows down the rate at which it naturally vibrates , while increasing stiffness makes it vibrate faster .	as the mass of a building increases , the natural frequency of the building or rate oscillation :	as the mass of a building increases , the natural frequency of the building or rate oscillation :
this is the inverse of the period , which is how many seconds it takes to complete one cycle . and a building 's natural frequency , determined by its mass and stiffness , is the frequency that its vibrations will tend to cluster around . increasing a building 's mass slows down the rate at which it naturally vibrates , while increasing stiffness makes it vibrate faster .	as the stiffness of a building increases , the natural frequency of the building or rate of oscillation :	as the stiffness of a building increases , the natural frequency of the building or rate of oscillation :
because if you visit this section of alexandria , you 'll be fifteen feet deep in the mediterranean sea . though people are most familiar with plato 's fictional atlantis , many real underwater cities actually exist . places like alexandria , port royal , jamaica , and pavlopetri , greece .	which of these famous sunken cities is fictional ?	which of these famous sunken cities is fictional ?
could reviving election by lottery lead to more effective government through a more diverse and representative group of legislatures ? or does modern political office , like athenian military command , require specialized knowledge and skills ? you probably should n't hold your breath to win a spot in your country 's government .	who was eligible to hold political office ?	who was eligible to hold political office ?
could reviving election by lottery lead to more effective government through a more diverse and representative group of legislatures ? or does modern political office , like athenian military command , require specialized knowledge and skills ? you probably should n't hold your breath to win a spot in your country 's government .	do you think athenian democracy sounds attractive ? what features of athenian political practice are most compelling ?	do you think athenian democracy sounds attractive ? what features of athenian political practice are most compelling ?
could reviving election by lottery lead to more effective government through a more diverse and representative group of legislatures ? or does modern political office , like athenian military command , require specialized knowledge and skills ? you probably should n't hold your breath to win a spot in your country 's government .	are there any features of athenian political practice that disturb you ? why ?	are there any features of athenian political practice that disturb you ? why ?
you 're facing a giant bowl of energy packed carbon crunchies . one spoonful . two .	how many repeats of the calvin cycle are needed to make one glucose molecule ?	how many repeats of the calvin cycle are needed to make one glucose molecule ?
you 're facing a giant bowl of energy packed carbon crunchies . one spoonful . two .	rubisco makes up about 15 % of the total protein in a chloroplast . why might chloroplasts have evolved to have so much of this one enzyme ?	rubisco makes up about 15 % of the total protein in a chloroplast . why might chloroplasts have evolved to have so much of this one enzyme ?
by they way , why did we pick 95 % and not 100 % ? well , that 's another quirk of our model of the electron . past a certain distance from the nucleus , the probability of finding an electron starts to decrease more or less exponentially , which means that while it will approach zero , it 'll never actually hit zero .	at about 3:02 , an atom of lithium loses an electron to an atom of fluorine . is this a chemical reaction ? why or why not ? why are there “ + ” and “ - ” signs on the elements after the electron is transferred ?	at about 3:02 , an atom of lithium loses an electron to an atom of fluorine . is this a chemical reaction ? why or why not ? why are there “ + ” and “ - ” signs on the elements after the electron is transferred ?
even the vapors responsible for aerosol particle formation are not well established because they 're present in only minute amounts , near one molecule per million million molecules of air . this lack of understanding is the main reason for the large uncertainty in climate sensitivity , and the corresponding wide range of future climate projections . however , an experiment underway at cern , named , perhaps unsurprisingly , `` cloud '' has managed to build a steel vessel that 's large enough and has a low enough contamination , that aerosol formation can , for the first time , be measured under tightly controlled atmospheric conditions in the laboratory .	what is the main reason for the large range of uncertainty in future climate projections ?	what is the main reason for the large range of uncertainty in future climate projections ?
newton experimented extensively with optics , and came to understand light as something of substance , and colors as components of light at different frequencies . before newton , people widely believed that the color was due to different amounts of light , with red being lots of light , and blue being mostly dark . newton 's prism experiments showed that white light could not only be broken into its component colors with one prism , but that a second lens could recompose those colors back into white light again , thus showing that color was a matter of light 's refraction rather than how light or dark it was .	people of newton 's time believed that color was simply a matter of how much light was present . newton discovered that :	people of newton 's time believed that color was simply a matter of how much light was present . newton discovered that :
wheat allergy is an uncommon condition that occurs when a person 's immune system mounts an allergic response to wheat proteins , leading to mild problems , and in rare cases , a potential dangerous reaction called anaphylaxis . celiac disease is an inherited disease , in which eating foods with gluten leads to inflammation and damage of the lining of the small intestine . this impairs intestinal function , leading to problems like belly pain , bloating , gas , diarrhea , weight loss , skin rash , bone problems like osteoporosis , iron deficiency , small stature , infertility , fatigue and depression .	an inherited disease in which eating gluten inflames and damages the lining of the small intenstine is called :	an inherited disease in which eating gluten inflames and damages the lining of the small intenstine is called :
not the legislature , that would lead to cabal and factions . got it : electors , wise , informed men who have time to make a good decision . and if they did n't produce a winner , then the decision would go to one of the other branches of government , the congress .	the men who wrote the constitution are often referred to as the :	the men who wrote the constitution are often referred to as the :
not the legislature , that would lead to cabal and factions . got it : electors , wise , informed men who have time to make a good decision . and if they did n't produce a winner , then the decision would go to one of the other branches of government , the congress .	according to the narrator , the men who wrote the constitution were afraid of :	according to the narrator , the men who wrote the constitution were afraid of :
et voila ! biodiesel . now , you might be wondering whether all this hassle over recycling used cooking oil is even worth it .	where does biodiesel come from ?	where does biodiesel come from ?
et voila ! biodiesel . now , you might be wondering whether all this hassle over recycling used cooking oil is even worth it .	what is the reactor used to make biodiesel ?	what is the reactor used to make biodiesel ?
et voila ! biodiesel . now , you might be wondering whether all this hassle over recycling used cooking oil is even worth it .	it seems a relatively easy task to collect used oil to produce biodiesel , yet most people find it really difficult to take the first step and stop throwing it down the drain . why do you think it is so difficult to change a behavior , and what strategies would you use to help someone to make that change ?	it seems a relatively easy task to collect used oil to produce biodiesel , yet most people find it really difficult to take the first step and stop throwing it down the drain . why do you think it is so difficult to change a behavior , and what strategies would you use to help someone to make that change ?
as the farallon plate subducts , it compresses north america , thrusting up mountain ranges like the rockies , which extend over 3,000 miles . soon after , the eurasian plate rifts from north america , opening the north atlantic ocean . we 'll fast forward again .	what was the name of the ancestral north american continent ?	what was the name of the ancestral north american continent ?
yeah so neodymium is one my favourite f elements to work with . when you use it in compounds and you dissolve it , often you get colourful blue solutions from it . sometimes they are green as well , but often i have found that if concentration of the solution makes a really big difference to the colour of these solutions so you may have a compound which appears to be red but actually as you dilute it down eventually it ends up being blue , which is really pretty and sometimes if you cannula it from one flask to another and you can see through the cannula you can see it change colour as it goes through the cannula and then drops into the next solution again .	which beautiful colors do the solutions of neodymium compounds display ?	which beautiful colors do the solutions of neodymium compounds display ?
now if we open , very carefully , we might see if the metal is still there . ok so dysprosium is used in nuclear fuel rods because it is very good at capturing neutrons , which means that you can modulate how hot a nuclear reaction is getting which is why it is used in powerstations to prevent the reactions from running away out of control . so take off all this foil and then we can withdraw the sample .	why is dysprosium used in fission nuclear plants ?	why is dysprosium used in fission nuclear plants ?
honeybees are fascinating creatures for a number of reasons : their incredible work ethic , the sugary sweet syrup they produce and their intricate social structure . but another reason is that honeybees are , in fact , excellent mathematicians .	which of the following shapes do not tessellate :	which of the following shapes do not tessellate :
in 1938 , during the great depression that left millions without jobs , president franklin d. roosevelt signed a law calling for an eight-hour work day , a five-day work week , and an end to child labor , some of the first federal protections for american workers . as america and canada celebrate labor day , most of the two countries ' children enjoy a day off from school . but it is important to remember that there was a time that everyday was a labor day for children in america and canada , and unfortunately , the same fact remains true for millions of children around the world today .	many countries celebrate international workers day on :	many countries celebrate international workers day on :
when a situation is urgent , when action is required now , when you need to know where the tornado will hit , how fast the fire is spreading , and if it will reach your home today . but the narrative personal stories that contribute to the buffet of journalism are pieces that have the luxury of a slow dance of information . it is this artful solicitation of story that will make the journalism memorable and will deliver the narrative bond that will connect us to each other .	personal narrative is a new form of storytelling in 21st century media employed only in personal blogs and conversations .	personal narrative is a new form of storytelling in 21st century media employed only in personal blogs and conversations .
when a situation is urgent , when action is required now , when you need to know where the tornado will hit , how fast the fire is spreading , and if it will reach your home today . but the narrative personal stories that contribute to the buffet of journalism are pieces that have the luxury of a slow dance of information . it is this artful solicitation of story that will make the journalism memorable and will deliver the narrative bond that will connect us to each other .	have you ever read a piece of journalism , blog or book that led you hungry for more personal information about the individuals involved ?	have you ever read a piece of journalism , blog or book that led you hungry for more personal information about the individuals involved ?
when a situation is urgent , when action is required now , when you need to know where the tornado will hit , how fast the fire is spreading , and if it will reach your home today . but the narrative personal stories that contribute to the buffet of journalism are pieces that have the luxury of a slow dance of information . it is this artful solicitation of story that will make the journalism memorable and will deliver the narrative bond that will connect us to each other .	what elements help an interviewer mine for personal information from a subject ?	what elements help an interviewer mine for personal information from a subject ?
unless the problem is addressed , the crystals will gradually grow over a few weeks , months , or even years , forming a detectable stone . calcium oxalate is the most common type of crystal to form this way , and accounts for about 80 % of kidney stones . less common kidney stones are made of calcium phosphate , or uric acid . a slightly different type of stone made of the minerals magnesium ammonium phosphate , or struvite , can be caused by bacterial infection .	what is the most common composition of kidney stones ?	what is the most common composition of kidney stones ?
for blood types , the a and b alleles are both dominant , while o is recessive . so a and a gives you type a blood , while b and b gives you type b . if you inherit one of each , the resulting codominance will produce both a and b antigens , which is type ab .	if a person inherits the a allele from his mother , and the b allele from his father , what will his blood type be ?	if a person inherits the a allele from his mother , and the b allele from his father , what will his blood type be ?
here , imagine you 're a seasoned cop or a dedicated doctor , but also imagine you are at a museum and let 's look at a painting . rene magritte 's `` time transfixed '' of 1938 depicts a mysterious and complex interior that invites analysis not unlike that required of a patient 's symptoms or the scene of a crime . a miniature train whose origin and destination are unknown is emerging from a fireplace , and the smoke from the locomotive appears to flow up the chimney as if from the fire that is conspicuously absent below .	which of these illustrates an inconsistency in time transfixed ?	which of these illustrates an inconsistency in time transfixed ?
fat and cholesterol floating in the blood latch on , too , eventually building up to form a plaque that stiffens and thickens the inner arterial wall . this condition is called atherosclerosis , and it can have dangerous consequences . if the plaque ruptures , a blood clot forms on top of the tear , clogging the already narrowed pipe .	how does atherosclerosis develop , and what are its possible long-term consequences ?	how does atherosclerosis develop , and what are its possible long-term consequences ?
just as there were four factorial ways of arranging four people , there are 52 factorial ways of arranging 52 cards . fortunately , we do n't have to calculate this by hand . just enter the function into a calculator , and it will show you that the number of possible arrangements is 8.07 x 10^67 , or roughly eight followed by 67 zeros .	which symbol do mathematicians use as a short hand to describe the product ( multiplication ) of an integer and all smaller integers down to 1 [ n x ( n-1 ) x ( n-2 ) x … x 1 ] ?	which symbol do mathematicians use as a short hand to describe the product ( multiplication ) of an integer and all smaller integers down to 1 [ n x ( n-1 ) x ( n-2 ) x … x 1 ] ?
but if you shoot it harder , it goes far enough so that it lands a little bit past the curvature of earth . well , you can imagine if you shot it really , really , hard , it would go all the way around the earth and come back -- boom ! -- and hit you in the backside or something .	if a person has a rock and lets it go , what direction will it go ?	if a person has a rock and lets it go , what direction will it go ?
anybody knows why we vote on tuesdays ? jacob soboroff : do you happen to know ? ron paul : on tuesdays ?	what is the name of the bill that might change the voting date in america ( as of april 2012 ) that jacob soboroff refers to ?	what is the name of the bill that might change the voting date in america ( as of april 2012 ) that jacob soboroff refers to ?
we use sodium and chloride ions to keep our cells inflated , to regulate blood pressure and convey electrical nerve impulses throughout our body . to maintain this we need to consume about six grams of sodium chloride every day . so salt 's culinary and cultural value is no surprise its history could fill a book , and it has .	how much sodium chloride do we need to consume every day ?	how much sodium chloride do we need to consume every day ?
i ’ m talking about the pilgrims and the puritans . and no , i will not be talking about thanksgiving ... is a lie . i can ’ t help myself .	do you celebrate thanksgiving ? if so , how ? if not , why ?	do you celebrate thanksgiving ? if so , how ? if not , why ?
besides music , it 's hard to think of another case of intrusive imagery that 's so widespread . why music ? why do n't watercolors get stuck in our heads ?	music is especially susceptible to getting stuck in our heads because :	music is especially susceptible to getting stuck in our heads because :
besides music , it 's hard to think of another case of intrusive imagery that 's so widespread . why music ? why do n't watercolors get stuck in our heads ?	you have been listening to your favorite pop music station for the last three hours . during that time you have been introduced to a new song at least four times and it is already stuck in your head ( an earworm ) . from your personal perspective , describe why that might be the case .	you have been listening to your favorite pop music station for the last three hours . during that time you have been introduced to a new song at least four times and it is already stuck in your head ( an earworm ) . from your personal perspective , describe why that might be the case .
look at the sequence again and try reading it aloud . now , look at the next number in the sequence . 3 , 1 , 2 , 2 , 1 , 1 .	what is the next number after 312211 ?	what is the next number after 312211 ?
look at the sequence again and try reading it aloud . now , look at the next number in the sequence . 3 , 1 , 2 , 2 , 1 , 1 .	what is the key feature used to generate the next number in the sequence ?	what is the key feature used to generate the next number in the sequence ?
`` certainly , your honor . we now come to mr. jackson 's most terrible offense : forcing entire tribes out of their native lands via the indian removal act . '' `` i resent that accusation , sir .	the indian removal act sought to relocate the _________ tribe west of the mississippi river ?	the indian removal act sought to relocate the _________ tribe west of the mississippi river ?
at the same time , on the other end of germany was theodor schwann , a scientist who not only studied slides of animal cells under the microscope and got a special type of nerve cell named after him , but also invented rebreathers for firefighters , and had a kickin ' pair of sideburns . after studying animal cells for a while , he , too , came to the conclusion that all animals were made of cells . immediately , he reached out via snail mail , as twitter had yet to be invented , to other scientists working in the same field with schleiden , who got back to him , and the two started working on the beginnings of the cell theory .	which scientist realized that , by studying samples under a microscope , all animals are made up of cells ?	which scientist realized that , by studying samples under a microscope , all animals are made up of cells ?
but these were incredibly toxic to humans as well . as our demand for more , safer produce increased , so did the need for effective chemicals that could control pests on a grander scale . this ushered in the era of chemical pesticides .	today , ladybugs are used to control aphids ( a pest that suck sap from plants ) , just like predatory ants were used to control pests in chinese orchards . what could be the advantages and disadvantages of using insects to combat pests ?	today , ladybugs are used to control aphids ( a pest that suck sap from plants ) , just like predatory ants were used to control pests in chinese orchards . what could be the advantages and disadvantages of using insects to combat pests ?
cloudy climate change : how clouds affect earth 's temperature . earth 's average surface temperature has warmed by .8 celsius since 1750 . when carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere have doubled , which is expected before the end of the 21st century , researchers project global temperatures will have risen by 1.5 to 4.5 degrees celsius . if the increase is near the low end , 1.5 celsius , then we 're already halfway there , and we should be more able to adapt with some regions becoming drier and less productive , but others becoming warmer , wetter and more productive .	a certain climate model calculates a climate sensitivity of 0.8 celsius per watt/m2 . ( 1 watt/m2 = 1 watt per square metre ; a candle is about 40 watt so 1 watt/m2 is equivalent to the energy of one candle spread over 40 square metres . ) what global temperature rise is predicted by this model for a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere ( radiative forcing = 3.7 watt/m2 ) , which is a level that may be reached during the second half of the 21st century ?	a certain climate model calculates a climate sensitivity of 0.8 celsius per watt/m2 . ( 1 watt/m2 = 1 watt per square metre ; a candle is about 40 watt so 1 watt/m2 is equivalent to the energy of one candle spread over 40 square metres . ) what global temperature rise is predicted by this model for a doubling of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere ( radiative forcing = 3.7 watt/m2 ) , which is a level that may be reached during the second half of the 21st century ?
you were the one who was following a curving path , but , from your point of view , the ball appears to curve . we call this the coriolis effect . oh , and you are riding on a speeding merry-go-round right now at this very moment .	when air moves in the northern hemisphere , the coriolis effect :	when air moves in the northern hemisphere , the coriolis effect :
okay , a little bit on the long side . the answer is one day . and here 's what it looked like .	what is one major problem with the headset displays ?	what is one major problem with the headset displays ?
no way ! '' but after year upon year of not reaching the goals i set for myself in track , it was time for a change . so i reached out to the us olympic committee , and they told me to start training .	reaching goals is not always easy . there are times when you have to realize that you are not taking steps in the right direction . can you think of a time when you realized you needed to alter your course in order to reach your goal ? what are positive steps you have taken to reach your goal ?	reaching goals is not always easy . there are times when you have to realize that you are not taking steps in the right direction . can you think of a time when you realized you needed to alter your course in order to reach your goal ? what are positive steps you have taken to reach your goal ?
the bottom number tells us what kind of note is to be used as the basic unit for the beat . one corresponds to a whole note , two to a half note , four to a quarter note , and eight to an eighth note , and so on . so this time signature here tells us that there are four quarter notes in each bar , one , two , three , four ; one , two , three , four , and so on . but like i said before , if we just stick to the beat , it gets kind of boring , so we 'll replace some quarter notes with different rhythms .	which time signature tells a performer that there are four half-note beats in each bar ?	which time signature tells a performer that there are four half-note beats in each bar ?
but british computer scientist alan turing decided to disregard all these questions in favor of a much simpler one : can a computer talk like a human ? this question led to an idea for measuring aritificial intelligence that would famously come to be known as the turing test . in the 1950 paper , `` computing machinery and intelligence , '' turing proposed the following game .	when was the idea of the turing test first introduced ?	when was the idea of the turing test first introduced ?
from ancient soldiers on the battlefield to modern day warriors on the gridiron , exertional heat stroke , or sunstroke , has long been a serious concern . and unlike classical heat stroke , which affects vulnerable people such as infants and the elderly during heat waves , exertional heat stroke is caused by intense exercise in the heat , and is one of the top three killers of athletes and soldiers in training . when you exercise , nearly 80 % of the energy you use is transformed into heat .	what effect does extreme heat have on cells ?	what effect does extreme heat have on cells ?
in myanmar , greetings of `` mingalarbar '' are met by bowing monks as they internalize a message where others add blessing to enhance the auspiciousness of the moment , or by giggling children as they scurry off to school . after many hours of hiking through the mountains of lesotho , surrounded by the tranquility and rugged terrain , you are likely to meet a herdboy who has slept the night in a vacant rondoval and bellows out greetings of `` lumela '' or `` khotso '' , which means `` peace be with you . '' if you took a moment to research further the meanings behind `` shalom , '' or the korean greeting , you would find that they too have deeply-seated connections to peace .	in the rondavels of lesotho , you may hear heard boys shouting greetings that literally translate to :	in the rondavels of lesotho , you may hear heard boys shouting greetings that literally translate to :
it 's an example of a city that was submerged due to what is called isostatic sea level change . 18,000 years ago when the ice age ended , glaciers began melting and the sea level rose globally until about 5,000 years ago . isostatic sea level change is n't caused by that melt water , but rather the earth 's crust slowly springing back from the released weight of the glaciers , making some places rise , and others sink .	how many years ago did the last ice age end and release the weight of the ice caps from the earth ’ s crust ?	how many years ago did the last ice age end and release the weight of the ice caps from the earth ’ s crust ?
germanium is the first element in the periodic table , beginning at hydrogen , that ’ s named after a country : it is named after germany . there are other elements named after france and poland and america but we will come to those later .	like scandium and gallium , germanium was predicted to exist by mendeleev . what was the name he gave to that undiscovered element at the time ?	like scandium and gallium , germanium was predicted to exist by mendeleev . what was the name he gave to that undiscovered element at the time ?
germanium is the first element in the periodic table , beginning at hydrogen , that ’ s named after a country : it is named after germany . there are other elements named after france and poland and america but we will come to those later .	germanium was the first element in the periodic table named after a country , specifically the country of its discoverer . who discovered germanium ?	germanium was the first element in the periodic table named after a country , specifically the country of its discoverer . who discovered germanium ?
germanium is the first element in the periodic table , beginning at hydrogen , that ’ s named after a country : it is named after germany . there are other elements named after france and poland and america but we will come to those later .	germanium can form a compound with hydrogen , geh4 , germane . it is much more reactive than ch4 . what does this tell us about ge-h bonds compared with c-h bonds ?	germanium can form a compound with hydrogen , geh4 , germane . it is much more reactive than ch4 . what does this tell us about ge-h bonds compared with c-h bonds ?
( laughter ) here 's the cool part . because we asked this question , `` why tuesday ? '' there is now this bill , the weekend voting act in the congress of the united states of america . it would move election day from tuesday to the weekend , so that -- duh -- more people can vote . ( applause ) it has only taken 167 years , but finally , we are on the verge of changing american history .	do you think that changing america ’ s voting date from tuesday to a weekend date will impact voter turnout ? how ? why or why not ?	do you think that changing america ’ s voting date from tuesday to a weekend date will impact voter turnout ? how ? why or why not ?
i read it , it was awesome . if you think about it , i had to learn how to ride a different kind of bicycle and my son did it as well , but commander hadfield had to learn how to ride a different space ship . not only that , but a different type of space station .	according to destin , why is it easier for his son to learn to ride the backwards bicycle ?	according to destin , why is it easier for his son to learn to ride the backwards bicycle ?
the couple says the words , `` i do . '' the speech act here are the words , `` i do . '' these words cause them to marry one another .	what is a speech act ?	what is a speech act ?
in fact , our blood comes in a few different varieties . our red blood cells contain a protein called hemoglobin that binds to oxygen , allowing the cells to transport it throughout the body . but they also have another kind of complex protein on the outside of the cell membrane .	what is the main function of erythrocytes ( red blood cells ) ?	what is the main function of erythrocytes ( red blood cells ) ?
finally , fear can bring people together . emotions can be contagious , and when you see your friend scream and laugh , you feel compelled to do the same . this is because we make sense of what our friends are experiencing by recreating the experience ourselves .	what does it mean to say that emotions can be contagious ? what are the mechanisms by which emotions are contagious ( e.g. , why are they contagious ? ) ?	what does it mean to say that emotions can be contagious ? what are the mechanisms by which emotions are contagious ( e.g. , why are they contagious ? ) ?
only one zombie noun -- the key word `` nominalizations '' -- has been allowed to remain standing . at their best , nominalizations help us express complex ideas , perception , intelligence , epistemology . at their worst , they impede clear communication .	“ at their best , nominalizations help us express complex ideas . at their worst , they impede clear communication. ” when should we use nominalizations , and why ? when and why should we avoid them ?	“ at their best , nominalizations help us express complex ideas . at their worst , they impede clear communication. ” when should we use nominalizations , and why ? when and why should we avoid them ?
only one zombie noun -- the key word `` nominalizations '' -- has been allowed to remain standing . at their best , nominalizations help us express complex ideas , perception , intelligence , epistemology . at their worst , they impede clear communication .	multisyllabic words such as globalization and epistemology	multisyllabic words such as globalization and epistemology
now , star trek showed the future where there were black folk and white folk working together , and i just looked at it as science-fiction , because that was n't gon na happen , really . but ronald saw it as science-possibility , you know . he came up during a time when there was neil armstrong and all of those guys .	what happened to the library ronald took books out of ?	what happened to the library ronald took books out of ?
now , star trek showed the future where there were black folk and white folk working together , and i just looked at it as science-fiction , because that was n't gon na happen , really . but ronald saw it as science-possibility , you know . he came up during a time when there was neil armstrong and all of those guys .	which mission did ronald fly in ?	which mission did ronald fly in ?
now , star trek showed the future where there were black folk and white folk working together , and i just looked at it as science-fiction , because that was n't gon na happen , really . but ronald saw it as science-possibility , you know . he came up during a time when there was neil armstrong and all of those guys .	when ronald dreamed of being an astronaut , it seemed like a crazy goal for an african-american because of the discrimination of the time . can you think of any groups today who are still discriminated against the way ronald was ?	when ronald dreamed of being an astronaut , it seemed like a crazy goal for an african-american because of the discrimination of the time . can you think of any groups today who are still discriminated against the way ronald was ?
now , star trek showed the future where there were black folk and white folk working together , and i just looked at it as science-fiction , because that was n't gon na happen , really . but ronald saw it as science-possibility , you know . he came up during a time when there was neil armstrong and all of those guys .	what character traits do you think ronald possessed that helped him achieve success in the face of the challenges he was up against ?	what character traits do you think ronald possessed that helped him achieve success in the face of the challenges he was up against ?
because humans have a mortal body accompanied by an immortal soul , we divide the universe nicely in half . around the time leonardo sketched the vitruvian man , however , a neoplatonist named pico della mirandola had a different idea . he pried mankind off the chain and claimed that humans have a unique ability to take any position they want .	the vitruvian man is named after	the vitruvian man is named after
after all , they do n't have lungs , spines , or even a plural noun we can all agree on . but what they do have is the ability to solve puzzles , learn through observation , and even use tools , just like some other animals we know . and what makes octopus intelligence so amazing is that it comes from a biological structure completely different from ours .	we know that octopuses are capable of using tools to solve problems . how can we test their problem-solving abilities ?	we know that octopuses are capable of using tools to solve problems . how can we test their problem-solving abilities ?
these mysterious disappearances are n't new . humans have been collecting honey for centuries . but it was n't until european settlers in the 1600 's introduced the subspecies , apis mellifera , that we domesticated bees . since the 19th century , beekeepers have reported occasional mass disappearances , giving them enigmatic names like disappearing disease , spring dwindle disease and autumn collapse .	since when have humans domesticated bees ?	since when have humans domesticated bees ?
psychologists of the time speculated that it represented difficulties letting go of childhood , or even a longing to return to one 's fetal state . but over the next few decades , the understanding of nostalgia changed in two important ways . its meaning expanded from indicating homesickness to a general longing for the past .	how scholars conceptualize nostalgia has changed over the centuries . what factors explain these changing views on nostalgia ?	how scholars conceptualize nostalgia has changed over the centuries . what factors explain these changing views on nostalgia ?
humans generally do n't like confrontation . people worry that their answers may make them look bad . therefore , we find that people tend to give socially desirable responses , not necessarily their honest opinions , because they do n't want to come across as heartless , racist , or bigoted . and the way we word our questions matters too .	we find that people tend to give socially desirable answers in response to poll questions . that means that which of the following is most true ?	we find that people tend to give socially desirable answers in response to poll questions . that means that which of the following is most true ?
all that new reading material meant more knowledge was circulating , but it also meant that more people were straining their eyes , likely as they read by candlelight . and while spectacles had been invented in italy around 1286 , the need for reading glasses increased substantially . now that people could use lenses to see things more clearly , they started wondering if vision could be enhanced to see things the human eye could n't perceive by its own devices .	where and when were spectacles invented ?	where and when were spectacles invented ?
this is where you may have see `` deadliest catch '' framed , in the northernmost part of the pacific ocean . we 've been looking specifically at krill , one of the most important food items in this habitat . these half-inch long shrimp-like critters are about the caloric equivalent of a heavily buttered kernel of popcorn . and they 're eaten by everything from birds and fur seals that pick them up one at a time to large whales that engulf them in huge mouthfuls .	what is the caloric equivalent of a single krill ?	what is the caloric equivalent of a single krill ?
there are other things that make no more sense than those but that seem normal now because the sands of time have buried where they came from . for example , did you ever wonder why a nickname for edward is ned ? where 'd the n come from ? it 's the same with nellie for ellen .	try to think up other words beginning with n that could emerge in english if the dice had rolled differently . for example , olives could be nolives . then , think of words that could lose their n – we could be eating with apkins , for example .	try to think up other words beginning with n that could emerge in english if the dice had rolled differently . for example , olives could be nolives . then , think of words that could lose their n – we could be eating with apkins , for example .
yet france , one of the largest and richest countries in europe was still governed by an ancient regime of three rigid social classes called estates . the monarch king louis xvi based his authority on divine right and granted special privileges to the first and second estates , the catholic clergy , and the nobles . the third estate , middle class merchants and craftsmen , as well as over 20 million peasants , had far less power and they were the only ones who paid taxes , not just to the king , but to the other estates as well .	what was king louis ’ s authority based on ?	what was king louis ’ s authority based on ?
an ostrich stretches its wings over its nest to shade its young . a peacock displays its magnificent tail feathers to attract peahens . feathers could have served these functions for dinosaurs too .	what 's the use of a peacock 's tail feathers ?	what 's the use of a peacock 's tail feathers ?
if you were going to invest now in your future best self , where would you put your time and your energy ? there was a recent survey of millennials asking them what their most important life goals were , and over 80 percent said that a major life goal for them was to get rich . and another 50 percent of those same young adults said that another major life goal was to become famous .	when millennials were polled about their life goals , what did 80 % of them claim to be a major life goal ?	when millennials were polled about their life goals , what did 80 % of them claim to be a major life goal ?
but which of the two combinations that add up to thirteen is correct : 1,6,6 , or 2,2,9 ? that 's where the third clue comes in . since it tells us that the largest number must be unique , 2,2,9 must be the code .	why did zara need the third clue ?	why did zara need the third clue ?
gas and steam eject dust into space , forming a bright surrounding cloud , called a coma , that can grow even larger than the sun itself . meanwhile , the intense stream of high-energy particles constantly emitted by the sun , known as the solar wind , blows particles away from the comet 's core , forming a trail of debris up to millions of miles long . the ice , gas and dust reflect light glowing brightly .	the formation of amino acids in comets is driven by a hot stream of particles emitted by stars known as _____ .	the formation of amino acids in comets is driven by a hot stream of particles emitted by stars known as _____ .
then , in the second generation , where the two heterozygous kids marry , their babies could have any of the three possible genotypes , showing the two possible phenotypes in a three-to-one proportion . but even peas have a lot of characteristics . for example , besides being yellow or green , peas may be round or wrinkled . so we could have all these possible combinations : round yellow peas , round green peas , wrinkled yellow peas , wrinkled green peas . to calculate the proportions for each genotype and phenotype , we can use a punnett square too .	what do we call the result of the genotype ( for example , the color of the peas ) ?	what do we call the result of the genotype ( for example , the color of the peas ) ?
because these plates move independently , a fair amount of pushing and pulling between the plates occurs . the first type of interaction is a divergent boundary , in which two plates move away from one another . we see this in the mid-atlantic ridge between south america and africa .	what is the name for the type of interaction where two plates move away from each other ?	what is the name for the type of interaction where two plates move away from each other ?
let 's say you 're on a game show . you 've already earned $ 1000 in the first round when you land on the bonus space .	what is a heuristic ?	what is a heuristic ?
old standards based on arbitrary authority or local traditions were replaced with mathematical and natural relationships . for example , the meter , from the greek word for measure , was defined as 1/10,000,000 between the equator and north pole . and the new metric system was , in the words of the marquis de condorcet , `` for all people , for all time . ''	the word meter derives from a greek word that means :	the word meter derives from a greek word that means :
it takes guts to stand out like that . the first follower is what transforms a lone nut into a leader . ( laughter ) ( applause ) and here comes a second follower .	what is the role of the first follower ? and what 's the leader 's job with regard to the first follower ?	what is the role of the first follower ? and what 's the leader 's job with regard to the first follower ?
others have crossed a border and sought shelter outside of their own countries . they are commonly referred to as refugees . but what exactly does that term mean ?	can you explain the differences between , and common traits of , refugees and migrants ?	can you explain the differences between , and common traits of , refugees and migrants ?
others have crossed a border and sought shelter outside of their own countries . they are commonly referred to as refugees . but what exactly does that term mean ?	what can ordinary people do to help families and individuals who have become refugees ?	what can ordinary people do to help families and individuals who have become refugees ?
and you were born 1.3 seconds before the bell rings . so , you see , the earth is extremely , unbelievably old compared to us humans with a fossil record hiding incredible stories to tell us about the past and possibly the future as well . but in the short time we 've been here , we 've learned so much and will surely learn more over the next decades and centuries , near moments in geological time .	calculate how many generations of humans it would take for us to exist on this planet as long as the dinosaurs ruled ? ( assume average life span of 80 years ) ( what must we humans do to ensure we are able to exist this many generations ?	calculate how many generations of humans it would take for us to exist on this planet as long as the dinosaurs ruled ? ( assume average life span of 80 years ) ( what must we humans do to ensure we are able to exist this many generations ?
brady haran : hey there , everyone . today 's video is about richard feynman -- a lot of people 's favorite scientist -- and safe breaking . but i just wanted to point out at the start that most safes , or secure filing cabinets , actually have one dial .	who was richard feynman ?	who was richard feynman ?
this phenomenon of perceiving apparent motion in successive images is due to a characteristic of human perception historically referred to as `` persistence of vision . '' the term is attributed to the english-swiss physicist peter mark roget , who , in the early 19th century , used it to describe a particular defect of the eye that resulted in a moving object appearing to be still when it reached a certain speed . not long after , the term was applied to describe the opposite , the apparent motion of still images , by belgian physicist joseph plateau , inventor of the phenakistoscope .	what phrase is attributed to the english-swiss physicist peter mark roget , who in the early 19th century used it to describe a particular ‘ defect of the eye ’ that resulted in a moving object appearing to be still when it reached a certain speed ?	what phrase is attributed to the english-swiss physicist peter mark roget , who in the early 19th century used it to describe a particular ‘ defect of the eye ’ that resulted in a moving object appearing to be still when it reached a certain speed ?
this category of injury does n't cause noticable symptoms right away , but can lead to severe degenerative brain diseases over time if it happens repeatedly . take soccer players , who are known for repeatedly heading soccer balls . using a technique called diffusion tensor imaging , we 're beginning to find out what effect that has on the brain .	what did the study in soccer players tell scientists about the cumulative effect of sub-concussive blows ?	what did the study in soccer players tell scientists about the cumulative effect of sub-concussive blows ?
as they grow , they become umbrella-shaped with a bell at the top and descending tentacles around the margin . the largest species of jellyfish , the lion 's mane , has tentacles that can extend more than 100 feet , longer than a blue whale . these tentacles contain most of the stinging cells , although some species have them on their bells , too .	the maximum length of a lion 's mane jellyfish 's tentacles is as long as a :	the maximum length of a lion 's mane jellyfish 's tentacles is as long as a :
more than a million noncombatants in both germany and japan . and 20 million people in the soviet union , most of them civilians . these civilians were targeted because they helped sustain the war , mostly through industrial and agricultural production .	which country saw the deaths of 20 million of its citizens , most of whom were civilians ?	which country saw the deaths of 20 million of its citizens , most of whom were civilians ?
here 's why : we start counting at one , and we count up to nine : 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , and then we get to 10 , and in order to write 10 , we write a one and a zero . that one means that we have one group , and the zero helps us remember that it means one group , not one thing . but 10 , just like one , just like a dozen eggs , just like an egg , 10 is a unit .	our number system is called a place value system because the value of a digit depends on its place in the number . the speaker in the video used the example of 1 ; sometimes it means one thing , sometimes it means one group of things , etc . in roman numerals , there is a separate symbol for ten . i means one , but x means ten . you may know that xi means eleven , while ix means 9. should we call roman numerals a place value system ? discuss .	our number system is called a place value system because the value of a digit depends on its place in the number . the speaker in the video used the example of 1 ; sometimes it means one thing , sometimes it means one group of things , etc . in roman numerals , there is a separate symbol for ten . i means one , but x means ten . you may know that xi means eleven , while ix means 9. should we call roman numerals a place value system ? discuss .
this phronima crustacean carries her babies on her chest , then carefully places them in a gelatinous barrel . but the black-eyed squid takes the prize . she cradles her eggs in long arms for nine months , the same time it takes to gestate a human infant .	how long does the black-eyed squid cradle eggs ?	how long does the black-eyed squid cradle eggs ?
bats have been a source of inspiration for the design of flying robots and even an energy-efficient spy plane , as they are the only mammal capable of true powered flight . echolocation , a type of biological sonar , is also used by bats as a way to navigate and find prey in the dark . although there 's a common misconception that bats are blind , in truth , all species of bats have sight . and some have even adapted large eyes to see better in dim lighting .	which of these is a way that bats have helped humans ?	which of these is a way that bats have helped humans ?
the dna in just one of your cells gets damaged tens of thousands of times per day . multiply that by your body 's hundred trillion or so cells , and you 've got a quintillion dna errors everyday . and because dna provides the blueprint for the proteins your cells need to function , damage causes serious problems , such as cancer . the errors come in different forms .	cancer is due to cells that lose control on their replication . can you suggest how a mistake in dna can cause cancer ?	cancer is due to cells that lose control on their replication . can you suggest how a mistake in dna can cause cancer ?
the needles punch through the epidermis , allowing ink to seep deep into the dermis , which is composed of collagen fibers , nerves , glands , blood vessels and more . every time a needle penetrates , it causes a wound that alerts the body to begin the inflammatory process , calling immune system cells to the wound site to begin repairing the skin . and it is this very process that makes tattoos permanent .	every time the needle penetrates the skin , it causes the wound to initiate which bodily process ?	every time the needle penetrates the skin , it causes the wound to initiate which bodily process ?
take a moment to think about it . the answer may seem surprisingly low . in a group of 23 people , there 's a 50.73 % chance that two people will share the same birthday .	the assumptions made for the birthday problem are what allow us to answer it in the way that we did . how would the answer change if we changed the assumptions ?	the assumptions made for the birthday problem are what allow us to answer it in the way that we did . how would the answer change if we changed the assumptions ?
they salivated even when there was no meat powder present . this phenomenon is n't limited to dogs . consider the placebo effect , in which a pill with no active substances brings about a response similar to a pill with a substance present .	what is the name for the phenomenon in which we avoid certain foods that make us ill ?	what is the name for the phenomenon in which we avoid certain foods that make us ill ?
but there was a catch : he could n't do any damage to the crown . one day , while taking his bath , archimedes noticed that the water level in the bathtub rose and overflowed as he immersed himself into the tub . he suddenly realized that how much water was displaced depended on how much of his body was immersed . this discovery excited him so much that he jumped out of the tub and ran through the streets naked , shouting `` eureka ! ''	what determined how much water was displaced from archimedes bathtub ?	what determined how much water was displaced from archimedes bathtub ?
`` some are born great , some achieve greatness , and others have greatness thrust upon them '' , quoth william shakespeare . or did he ?	who was the original author of `` romeo and juliet '' ?	who was the original author of `` romeo and juliet '' ?
but , how exactly does this happen ? the ancient greeks were the first to think more or less scientifically about what light is and how vision works . some greek philosophers , including plato and pythagoras , thought that light originated in our eyes and that vision happened when little , invisible probes were sent to gather information about far-away objects .	who were the first to think ( more or less scientifically ) about what light is ?	who were the first to think ( more or less scientifically ) about what light is ?
the seventh kind of intelligence is difficult to assess but it ’ s very important . it ’ s intrapersonal intelligence . it ’ s the understanding yourself .	how is intrapersonal intelligence different than interpersonal intelligence ?	how is intrapersonal intelligence different than interpersonal intelligence ?
that is , it sounded like whenever someone referred to edward affectionately , they said ned instead of ed . behold , the birth of a nickname ! or an ekename .	if you were a medieval british person and your son was named eb , what might his nickname start to be ?	if you were a medieval british person and your son was named eb , what might his nickname start to be ?
`` so what went wrong ? '' `` after caesar 's death , this foreign queen could n't stop meddling in roman matters . '' `` actually , it was the roman factions who came demanding her aid .	who did cleopatra ally with and against immediately after caesar ’ s death ?	who did cleopatra ally with and against immediately after caesar ’ s death ?
but the older the word , the longer the story and the more it stands to reveal to us not only about itself , but about ourselves and our history . the oldest words in present-day english are those that come from old english , the ancestor of our modern language whose first seeds were planted about 1500 years ago . compared to languages like greek or chinese that date back thousands of years , english is just a sapling in the lexical forest . but the stories of its words often start long before english itself took root .	english is not as old as some languages ; it dates back only about	english is not as old as some languages ; it dates back only about
also , we now know that there 's a huge amount more matter out there than just the things that i was just talking about . that stuff is called dark matter . we do n't know what it is , and we 'd like to be able to get it and experiment with it and figure out what it is .	what is dark matter ?	what is dark matter ?
wow , quite a spectacular reaction . as the caesium reacted with the water , gave away its electron , off she goes , it ’ s caesium plus . awesome , it was pretty good .	what is the relationship between caesium and clocks ?	what is the relationship between caesium and clocks ?
wow , quite a spectacular reaction . as the caesium reacted with the water , gave away its electron , off she goes , it ’ s caesium plus . awesome , it was pretty good .	when you drop caesium into water , what happens to the ph level of the water ?	when you drop caesium into water , what happens to the ph level of the water ?
how do they help keep food edible and are they safe ? there are two major factors that cause food to go bad : microbes and oxidation . microbes like bacteria and fungi invade food and feed off its nutrients .	describe two primary pathways for food degradation , and name a few preservatives that can combat each .	describe two primary pathways for food degradation , and name a few preservatives that can combat each .
of course , a justice 's leanings are not always so predictable . for example , when president eisenhower , a republican , nominated earl warren for chief justice , eisenhower expected him to make conservative decisions . instead , warren 's judgements have gone down as some of the most liberal in the court 's history .	president _____ , a conservative , expected his nominee _______ to rule like a conservative .	president _____ , a conservative , expected his nominee _______ to rule like a conservative .
on her way home , our comma sees a conjunction holding up the weight of a complete sentence and a fragment sentence . bartheleme is going to major in molecular biology or interpretive dance . the now-exhausted comma asks the conjunction if he needs help lifting the items .	harold is an excellent singer and he can dance all of the latest dance moves .	harold is an excellent singer and he can dance all of the latest dance moves .
on her way home , our comma sees a conjunction holding up the weight of a complete sentence and a fragment sentence . bartheleme is going to major in molecular biology or interpretive dance . the now-exhausted comma asks the conjunction if he needs help lifting the items .	nobody knows harold can dance because he refuses to dance in public .	nobody knows harold can dance because he refuses to dance in public .
on her way home , our comma sees a conjunction holding up the weight of a complete sentence and a fragment sentence . bartheleme is going to major in molecular biology or interpretive dance . the now-exhausted comma asks the conjunction if he needs help lifting the items .	i want harold to show me how to dance but i ’ m afraid to ask him .	i want harold to show me how to dance but i ’ m afraid to ask him .
on her way home , our comma sees a conjunction holding up the weight of a complete sentence and a fragment sentence . bartheleme is going to major in molecular biology or interpretive dance . the now-exhausted comma asks the conjunction if he needs help lifting the items .	harold is going to the prom with kendra or olivia .	harold is going to the prom with kendra or olivia .
in fact , humans hate mosquitos so much that we spend billions of dollars worldwide to keep them away from us -- from citronella candles to bug sprays to heavy-duty agricultural pesticides . but it 's not just that mosquitos are annoying , they 're also deadly . mosquitos can transmit everything from malaria to yellow fever to west nile virus to dengue . over a million people worldwide die every year from mosquito-borne diseases , and that 's just people .	which of the following have mosquitos been known to spread ?	which of the following have mosquitos been known to spread ?
in fact , humans hate mosquitos so much that we spend billions of dollars worldwide to keep them away from us -- from citronella candles to bug sprays to heavy-duty agricultural pesticides . but it 's not just that mosquitos are annoying , they 're also deadly . mosquitos can transmit everything from malaria to yellow fever to west nile virus to dengue . over a million people worldwide die every year from mosquito-borne diseases , and that 's just people .	what do you do to prevent mosquitos from biting ?	what do you do to prevent mosquitos from biting ?
in fact , humans hate mosquitos so much that we spend billions of dollars worldwide to keep them away from us -- from citronella candles to bug sprays to heavy-duty agricultural pesticides . but it 's not just that mosquitos are annoying , they 're also deadly . mosquitos can transmit everything from malaria to yellow fever to west nile virus to dengue . over a million people worldwide die every year from mosquito-borne diseases , and that 's just people .	what kind of inventions can you think of that might make mosquitos easier to deal with ?	what kind of inventions can you think of that might make mosquitos easier to deal with ?
for these types of questions , we need cameras . about 150 years ago , the photographer eadweard muybridge used one to solve the galloping horse mystery . using careful photography , muybridge proved that at certain points as it gallops , a horse really is flying .	but what might this phrase mean : `` the camera certainly lies , but it tells the truth about the photographer . ''	but what might this phrase mean : `` the camera certainly lies , but it tells the truth about the photographer . ''
objects that are less dense than water , such as balsa wood , icebergs , and inflatable rafts always float . that 's because the upward buoyant force is always stronger than the downward force of gravity . but for objects or ships to float when they 're made of materials , like steel , that are denser than water , they must displace a volume of water larger than their weight .	buoyancy is an upward force equal to :	buoyancy is an upward force equal to :
and the more mass your bicycle has , and the more mass you have too , the more force you have to use to accelerate at the same rate . this is why it would be really difficult to pedal a 10,000 pound bicycle . and it is this force , which is applied by your legs pushing down on the pedals , that allows you to overcome newton 's law of inertia .	according to the video , why would it be really difficult to pedal a 10,000 pound bicycle ?	according to the video , why would it be really difficult to pedal a 10,000 pound bicycle ?
so this a really beautiful sample of chromium . so chromium is a transition metal , right in the middle of the transition metals series there and it is used to protect metal components and very often you see chromium plated components on cars perhaps some of the older cars , you know , the wheel trims or perhaps the grills on the front , but if you look at the sample it is really lustrous , really beautiful and shiny . so there are some elements that one is really fond of and chromium is one of the metals that i really like .	why is chromium used to protect metal components , such as in the car industry on old-fashioned bumpers ( fenders ) ?	why is chromium used to protect metal components , such as in the car industry on old-fashioned bumpers ( fenders ) ?
so this a really beautiful sample of chromium . so chromium is a transition metal , right in the middle of the transition metals series there and it is used to protect metal components and very often you see chromium plated components on cars perhaps some of the older cars , you know , the wheel trims or perhaps the grills on the front , but if you look at the sample it is really lustrous , really beautiful and shiny . so there are some elements that one is really fond of and chromium is one of the metals that i really like .	which type of reaction is involved in the process that coats a piece of metal with chromium ( the process we know as “ chrome plating ” ) ?	which type of reaction is involved in the process that coats a piece of metal with chromium ( the process we know as “ chrome plating ” ) ?
ok so gadolinium is smack-bang in the middle of the 4f series . it ’ s perhaps most famous for the fact that it ’ s used as a contrast reagent in mri machines . so if you need a full body scan , a doctor will come along an inject you with a solution which contains a bit of gadolinium and what it basically does is that it changes the way that molecules , water molecules react in your body when they are scanned and then you can see the contrast between healthy tissue and , perhaps , unhealthy tissue and then that aids the doctors in their assignment .	gadolinium is famous for its use in magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . what is its role in mri ?	gadolinium is famous for its use in magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) . what is its role in mri ?
go big or go home . caffeine is a stimulant drug that acts on your central nervous system . because caffeine is both lipid and water soluble it can easily pass through the blood-brain barrier and act on the interior of your brain once there , caffeine works by diminishing the effect of a neurotransmitter called adenosine .	describe how caffeine acts as a stimulant in your central nervous system .	describe how caffeine acts as a stimulant in your central nervous system .
now , any citizen over the age of 21 could vote . all seemed well until the united states went to war . when the vietnam war called up all men age 18 and over for the draft , many wondered whether it was fair to send men who could n't vote to war .	which of these prohibits a person from voting in the united states today ?	which of these prohibits a person from voting in the united states today ?
we know that sharks use a range of sensors when they engage , particularly for attack , but the sight sensor is the one that they use to identify the target , and particularly in the last number of meters before the attack . it makes sense to pay attention to the biological anecdote because that 's time-tested evolution over many millennia . but is n't human anecdote also an evolution of sorts , the idea that there 's a kernel of truth thought to be important , passed down from generation to generation , so that it actually ends up shaping human behavior ?	how were the wetsuits tested ?	how were the wetsuits tested ?
another theory suggests that the cause is more about the way some unfamiliar situations make it harder to maintain our natural body posture . studies show that being immersed in water or just changing your stance can greatly reduce the effects of motion sickness . but we do n't really know what 's going on .	which of the following can not help you remedy the effects of motion sickness ?	which of the following can not help you remedy the effects of motion sickness ?
notice the strong `` i '' sound in , `` so long lives this and this gives life to thee . '' this repetition of vowel sounds is called assonance and can also be heard in eminem 's `` lose yourself . '' notice how the `` e '' and `` o '' sounds repeat both within in and at the end of each line : `` oh , there goes gravity , oh , there goes rabbit , he choked , he so mad but he wo n't give up that easy , no , he wo n't have it , he knows his whole back 's to these ropes . ''	the repetition of vowel sounds is called :	the repetition of vowel sounds is called :
who was this pharaoh , and what was behind the attack ? here 's the key : the pharaoh hatshepsut was a woman . in the normal course of things , she should never have been pharaoh .	why was it unusual that hatshepsut became pharaoh ?	why was it unusual that hatshepsut became pharaoh ?
so although the coelacanth itself is n't a land-walker , its fins do resemble those of its close relatives who first hauled their bodies onto land with the help of these sturdy , flexible appendages , acting as an evolutionary bridge to the land lovers that followed . so that 's how this prehistoric fish helps explain the evolutionary movement of vertebrates from water to land . over millions of years , that transition led to the spread of all four-limbed animals , called tetrapods , like amphibians , birds , and even the mammals that are our ancestors .	what other animals represent a significant link to our evolutionary past ? briefly explain the link of at least two other animals .	what other animals represent a significant link to our evolutionary past ? briefly explain the link of at least two other animals .
although roman culture was never fully lost , its influence declined and new art styles arose focused on religious symbolism and allegory rather than proportion and realism . this shift extended to architecture with the construction of the abbey of saint denis in france in 1137 . pointed arches , flying buttresses , and large windows made the structure more skeletal and ornate .	why did renaissance thinkers consider medieval architecture barbaric ?	why did renaissance thinkers consider medieval architecture barbaric ?
although roman culture was never fully lost , its influence declined and new art styles arose focused on religious symbolism and allegory rather than proportion and realism . this shift extended to architecture with the construction of the abbey of saint denis in france in 1137 . pointed arches , flying buttresses , and large windows made the structure more skeletal and ornate .	the abbey of st. denis was built in 1137 in :	the abbey of st. denis was built in 1137 in :
and as graffiti became increasingly associated with deliberate rebellion and provocativeness , it took on its vandalist label . that 's part of the reason why , today , many graffiti artists stay underground . some assume alternate identities to avoid retribution , while others do so to establish comradery and make claim to territory .	why might some graffiti artists prefer to stay anonymous or underground ?	why might some graffiti artists prefer to stay anonymous or underground ?
love 's delight , intimacy , and warmth helps us overcome our fear of the world , escape our lonely shells , and engage more abundantly in life . love enriches our whole being , making it the best thing in life . love is a misleading affliction .	why is it that love can be one of the best and the worst things in life ?	why is it that love can be one of the best and the worst things in life ?
in national waters , governments can set limits about how , when , where , and how much fishing occurs , with restrictions on certain boats and equipment . harmful practices , such as bottom trawling , can be banned altogether , and we can establish marine reserves closed to all fishing to help ecosystems restore themselves . there 's also a role for consumer awareness and boycotts to reduce wasteful practices , like shark finning , and push fishing industries towards more sustainable practices .	bottom-trawling is a type of net fishing that has been compared to what ?	bottom-trawling is a type of net fishing that has been compared to what ?
cloudy climate change : how clouds affect earth 's temperature . earth 's average surface temperature has warmed by .8 celsius since 1750 . when carbon dioxide concentrations in the atmosphere have doubled , which is expected before the end of the 21st century , researchers project global temperatures will have risen by 1.5 to 4.5 degrees celsius .	how much has earth 's average surface temperature increased since 1750 ?	how much has earth 's average surface temperature increased since 1750 ?
the deeper we fall into sleep , the slower and more synchronized this rhythm becomes , with the deepest stages dominated by large amplitude , low frequency delta waves . but surprisingly , in the middle of this slow wave sleep , the brain 's synchronized spontaneous activity repeatedly transitions into the sort of varied bursts that occur when we 're wide awake . this is the sleep stage known as rem sleep , where our eyes move rapidly back and forth as we dream .	when we fall asleep the brain gradually transitions into slow , synchronized patterns of activity . this `` slow wave sleep '' is interrupted by more random , de-synchronized bursts of activity during what sleep stage ?	when we fall asleep the brain gradually transitions into slow , synchronized patterns of activity . this `` slow wave sleep '' is interrupted by more random , de-synchronized bursts of activity during what sleep stage ?
all animals have protective immune systems . but horseshoe crab amebocytes are exceptionally sensitive to bacterial endotoxins . endotoxins are molecules from the cell walls of certain bacteria , including e. coli .	what factors might make it difficult to measure horseshoe crab populations and human impact on their numbers ?	what factors might make it difficult to measure horseshoe crab populations and human impact on their numbers ?
all animals have protective immune systems . but horseshoe crab amebocytes are exceptionally sensitive to bacterial endotoxins . endotoxins are molecules from the cell walls of certain bacteria , including e. coli .	can you think of any ways we could improve the quality of our data on horseshoe crab populations ?	can you think of any ways we could improve the quality of our data on horseshoe crab populations ?
it turns out that sleep is also crucial for your brain , with a fifth of your body 's circulatory blood being channeled to it as you drift off . and what goes on in your brain while you sleep is an intensely active period of restructuring that 's crucial for how our memory works . at first glance , our ability to remember things does n't seem very impressive at all .	the part in the brain that plays a role both in sleep and memory is :	the part in the brain that plays a role both in sleep and memory is :
and as you 've probably figured out , what we 're describing here is a cell . the high security office is the nucleus . it stores the blueprints and instructions as deoxyribonucleic acid , or dna .	in the factory analogy , what is the high security office ?	in the factory analogy , what is the high security office ?
however , our intrepid statisticians did find some compelling evidence of collaborations . for instance , one recent study concluded that shakespeare worked with playwright christopher marlowe on `` henry vi , '' parts one and two . shakespeare 's identity is only one of the many problems stylometry can resolve . it can help us determine when a work was written , whether an ancient text is a forgery , whether a student has committed plagiarism , or if that email you just received is of a high priority or spam .	pick a word that appears in shakespeare 's plays that is not commonly used today . how many times does the word appear in one of shakespeare 's plays ? how many times do you encounter the word in one of your days ?	pick a word that appears in shakespeare 's plays that is not commonly used today . how many times does the word appear in one of shakespeare 's plays ? how many times do you encounter the word in one of your days ?
but despite its familiarity , many people are unclear as to what the symbol actually means , which has a lot to do with the symbol itself and the way it came about . in 1968 , the international commission on technology and accessibility held a design contest . they were looking for a symbol that would be readily identifiable from a reasonable distance , self-descriptive , simple , practical , and could n't be confused with existing signage .	which of the following qualities was listed as essential when the design contest for the international symbol of access was launched ?	which of the following qualities was listed as essential when the design contest for the international symbol of access was launched ?
so , what differentiates one sunscreen from another ? when we choose a sunscreen , we can compare application method , the spf , and the active ingredients . sprays can be convenient to put on , especially when you 're wet , but a recent study found that most people do n't apply a thick enough layer to get full protection .	between spray and lotions , based on recent studies , which is a better application method ?	between spray and lotions , based on recent studies , which is a better application method ?
the more potential donors there are , the more patients lives can be saved through successful transplants . leukemia may be a frightening disease , but there is strength and hope in numbers .	how does leukemia affect the body ?	how does leukemia affect the body ?
ole worm collected natural specimens , human skeletons , ancient runic texts , and artifacts from the new world . in other curiosity cabinets , you could find genetic anomalies , precious stones , works of art , and religious and historic relics . oh my .	what 's another word for a curiosity cabinet ?	what 's another word for a curiosity cabinet ?
though a small man , he was quite lively , and his nickname was `` jumping flea , '' `` ukulele '' in hawaiian . like the king , he was a great lover of music . in 1879 , a group of portuguese immigrants arrived on the islands of hawaii , bringing with them a small , four-stringed guitar known as a braguinha .	how did king kalākaua ’ s love of music affect the ukulele ’ s popularity ?	how did king kalākaua ’ s love of music affect the ukulele ’ s popularity ?
first , we need to glue together the separate panels into one solid block . this gives us our space-time , turning space and time into one smooth , continuous material . and now , here is the trick .	all of the space-time diagrams we have drawn so far feature straight worldlines . what does this mean ? what would a curved worldline on a space-time diagram represent ?	all of the space-time diagrams we have drawn so far feature straight worldlines . what does this mean ? what would a curved worldline on a space-time diagram represent ?
the flashing lights keep the worm safe . then there 's the deep sea shrimp , acantherphyra purpurea . when it feels threatened , it spews a cloud of glowing goo from its mouth . who does n't run the other way when they 've just been puked on ?	the deep sea shrimp , acanthephyra purpurea , spews a bioluminescent cloud when it feels threatened . what purpose does this cloud serve ?	the deep sea shrimp , acanthephyra purpurea , spews a bioluminescent cloud when it feels threatened . what purpose does this cloud serve ?
and in the end , it 's the one that will be most successful at transmitting itself to new hosts and giving rise to the next generation . this describes what scientists call trade-off hypothesis . first developed in the early 1980s , it predicts that germs will evolve to maximize their overall success by achieving a balance between replicating within a host , which causes virulence , and transmission to a new host .	humans can direct the evolution of germs ( think about the trade off hypothesis ) . how ? explain this in detail .	humans can direct the evolution of germs ( think about the trade off hypothesis ) . how ? explain this in detail .
to make equations and numbers , we again introduce a coordinate system , and if we know the coordinates of a and b , we can easily compute the coordinates of m just by averaging . you now know enough to work at pixar . let me show you .	which pixar characters do you think were the hardest to bring to the screen , and why ? which were the easiest ?	which pixar characters do you think were the hardest to bring to the screen , and why ? which were the easiest ?
but , of course , things did n't go exactly as he had planned . spain secretly transferred the louisiana territory to france right beneath jefferson 's nose . when congress found out , they quickly began discussions with france to buy a piece of the territory along the mississippi river for about $ 2 million .	why did the idea of france on its doorstep bother the united states more than spain on its doorstep ?	why did the idea of france on its doorstep bother the united states more than spain on its doorstep ?
but , of course , things did n't go exactly as he had planned . spain secretly transferred the louisiana territory to france right beneath jefferson 's nose . when congress found out , they quickly began discussions with france to buy a piece of the territory along the mississippi river for about $ 2 million .	the louisiana territory was initially transferred by ______________ to _______________ .	the louisiana territory was initially transferred by ______________ to _______________ .
but , of course , things did n't go exactly as he had planned . spain secretly transferred the louisiana territory to france right beneath jefferson 's nose . when congress found out , they quickly began discussions with france to buy a piece of the territory along the mississippi river for about $ 2 million .	the approximate price per acre for the louisiana territory was ______________ .	the approximate price per acre for the louisiana territory was ______________ .
but here is the same fish as an adult , a beautiful inhabitant of the indian and pacific oceans ' coral reefs and one of the most popular captive fish for salt water aquariums . of the 27,000 known fish species , over a quarter live on coral reefs that make up less than 1 % of the earth 's surface . but prior to settling down in this diverse tropical environment , baby coral reef fish face the difficult process of growing up on their own , undergoing drastic changes , and the journey of a lifetime before they find that reef to call home .	coral reefs cover less than ____ % of the earth ’ s surface .	coral reefs cover less than ____ % of the earth ’ s surface .
some people do n't have celiac disease or a wheat allergy , but still experience symptoms when they eat foods with gluten . these people have non-celiac gluten sensitivity . they experience painful gut symptoms and suffer from fatigue , brain fog , joint pain or skin rash .	explain why gluten sensitivity is difficult to diagnose .	explain why gluten sensitivity is difficult to diagnose .
so , by keeping in mind a few practical tips , we do actually have the power to cultivate our own confidence . tip 1 : a quick fix . there are a few tricks that can give you an immediate confidence boost in the short term .	some quick ways to feel more confident before a challenge are :	some quick ways to feel more confident before a challenge are :
[ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] the tea allows us to breathe , to move . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] the whole things starts with big splashes of tea . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] it 's like some empty space inside the mind . [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music continues ♪ ] [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] i start with the pen , [ ♪ orchestral music ♪ ] and then i look at the markings .	“ the whole thing starts with big splashes of tea . it ’ s like some empty space inside the mountain. ” what do you think he means by this ?	“ the whole thing starts with big splashes of tea . it ’ s like some empty space inside the mountain. ” what do you think he means by this ?
this means we 're looking at the universe as it was less than a billion years after the big bang , and it allows scientists to research galaxies in their infancy . the deep field images have also shown that the universe is homogeneous . that is , images taken at different spots in the sky look similar .	what does the hubble deep field image teach us about the big bang and the universe as a whole ?	what does the hubble deep field image teach us about the big bang and the universe as a whole ?
this means we 're looking at the universe as it was less than a billion years after the big bang , and it allows scientists to research galaxies in their infancy . the deep field images have also shown that the universe is homogeneous . that is , images taken at different spots in the sky look similar .	why were the scientist so shocked by the hubble deep field and the extreme deep field images ? discuss all that the images can teach us .	why were the scientist so shocked by the hubble deep field and the extreme deep field images ? discuss all that the images can teach us .
this means we 're looking at the universe as it was less than a billion years after the big bang , and it allows scientists to research galaxies in their infancy . the deep field images have also shown that the universe is homogeneous . that is , images taken at different spots in the sky look similar .	the hubble deep field image illustrates provides a visual aide when thinking about the size of the universe , the size of the cosmos , and the size of humans . has this video changed your ideas about scale ? if so , how ?	the hubble deep field image illustrates provides a visual aide when thinking about the size of the universe , the size of the cosmos , and the size of humans . has this video changed your ideas about scale ? if so , how ?
so why does the second round seem much scarier ? the answer lies in a phenomenon known as loss aversion . under rational economic theory , our decisions should follow a simple mathematical equation that weighs the level of risk against the amount at stake .	according to loss aversion , people ’ s choices are biased on the fact that :	according to loss aversion , people ’ s choices are biased on the fact that :
this seeming superpower is called lexical ambiguity . it can turn words and sentences into mazes that mess with our minds . for example , consider the following : buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo .	what forms can lexically ambiguous words take ?	what forms can lexically ambiguous words take ?
if they only knew my story , though , i 'd be cheered as a hero . when people think of bats , many think of vampires who want to suck their blood . but the truth is that out of over 1200 bat species , only three are vampire bats .	how many species of bats are true vampires ?	how many species of bats are true vampires ?
she 's a little-known revolutionary figure , but boy , was she something ! she rode 40 miles through the damp , cold night of april 26 , 1777 to alert the colonial militia of a british attack . her action was similar to that of paul revere , only she rode twice as far and was only 16 years old .	what virtue did sybil ludington demonstrate when she rode 40 miles through the damp , cold night of april 1777 ?	what virtue did sybil ludington demonstrate when she rode 40 miles through the damp , cold night of april 1777 ?
gluten is an insoluble protein composite made up of two proteins named gliadin and glutenin . where might you encounter gluten ? gluten is found in certain grains , particularly wheat , rye and barley . what has gluten been doing for the previous entirety of human history , and why do you suddenly care about it ?	gluten can be found in which type of grains ?	gluten can be found in which type of grains ?
this was an easy mistake to make . thankfully , three inventions made modern navigation possible : sextants , clocks and the mathematics necessary to perform the required calculations quickly and easily . all are important .	according to christoph , three inventions made modern navigation possible . which is not one of those inventions :	according to christoph , three inventions made modern navigation possible . which is not one of those inventions :
if not , they 'll be tossed into the volcano . as it happens , all 100 prisoners have green eyes , but they 've lived there since birth , and the dictator has ensured they ca n't learn their own eye color . there are no reflective surfaces , all water is in opaque containers , and most importantly , they 're not allowed to communicate among themselves .	why do n't the prisoners know their own eye color ?	why do n't the prisoners know their own eye color ?
it 's possible for a very holy person to lead a life with enough good karma to escape the wheel . this escape is called moksha . hinduism teaches that everything is one .	which of the following could be called the `` founder '' of hinduism ?	which of the following could be called the `` founder '' of hinduism ?
behind the scenes are a series of hormonal controls that fine tune the body 's internal workings to make menstruation start or stop during those 28 days . this inner machinery includes two ovaries stocked with thousands of tiny sacks called follicles that each contain one oocyte , an unfertilized egg cell . at puberty , ovaries hold over 400 thousand egg cells , but release only one each month , which results in pregnancy or a period . here 's how this cycle unfolds .	if women only release one egg cell per month , why do you think they have an average total of 400,000 ?	if women only release one egg cell per month , why do you think they have an average total of 400,000 ?
what is the shape of a molecule ? well , a molecule is mostly empty space .	the final sequence of the video shows a photon hitting a molecule of retinal and changing its 3d shape . do some research into this process and explain what ’ s happening . how does this one molecule contribute to our sense of sight ?	the final sequence of the video shows a photon hitting a molecule of retinal and changing its 3d shape . do some research into this process and explain what ’ s happening . how does this one molecule contribute to our sense of sight ?
so as he was walking in there , all these folks were staring at him because it was white folk only and they were looking at him saying , you know , `` who is this negro ? '' so he politely positioned himself in line to check out his books . well , this old librarian , she says , `` this library 's not for coloreds . '' he said , `` well , i would like to check out these books . '' she says , `` young man , if you do n't leave this library right now , i 'm gon na call the police . ''	how old was ronald mcnair when he tried to check out books from the library ?	how old was ronald mcnair when he tried to check out books from the library ?
`` it is , your honor , a clear violation of the logan act of 1799 . '' `` uh , i think we 're forgetting president nixon 's many foreign policy achievements . it was he who normalized ties with china , forging economic ties that continue today . ''	which of the following was not one of nixon 's foreign policy initiatives ?	which of the following was not one of nixon 's foreign policy initiatives ?
consumed by their squabbles , rus princes paid little attention to the rumors of a mysterious unstoppable hoard until 1237 , when 35,000 mounted archers led by batu khan swept through the rus cities , sacking kiev before continuing on to hungary and poland . the age of kievan rus had come to an end , its people now divided . in the east , which remained under mongol rule , a remote trading post , known as moscow , would grow to challenge the power of the khans , conquering parts of their fragmenting empire , and , in many ways , succeeding it .	how did the kievan rus end up divided ?	how did the kievan rus end up divided ?
60 years later , russian mathematician andrey kolmogorov furthered our mathematical understanding of turbulence when he proposed that energy in a turbulent fluid at length r varies in proportion to the 5/3rds power of r. experimental measurements show kolmogorov was remarkably close to the way turbulent flow works , although a complete description of turbulence remains one of the unsolved problems in physics . a turbulent flow is self-similar if there is an energy cascade . in other words , big eddies transfer their energy to smaller eddies , which do likewise at other scales .	what is meant by the idea of self-similarity ?	what is meant by the idea of self-similarity ?
originally land mammals , the first cetaceans entered the water about 55 million years ago as large predators with sharp teeth . then , a shift in ocean temperatures about 35 million years ago reduced the availability of prey . one group of cetaceans who survived this distruption , the odontocetes , wound up smaller with less sharp teeth , but also larger and more complex brains that allowed for complex social relationships , as well as echolocation to navigate and communicate .	about 35 million years ago the early versions of modern dolphins :	about 35 million years ago the early versions of modern dolphins :
i mean , probably . but there is a microorganism called toxoplasma that needs both cats and rodents to complete its life cycle . when a rat gets infected by eating cat feces , the parasite changes chemical levels in the rat 's brain , making it less cautious around the hungry felines , maybe even attracted to them .	suppose you did an experiment in which you gave uninfected rats and rats infected with toxoplasma a choice between hiding places sprinkled with the urine of cats and rabbits . which of the following results would you expect to observe ?	suppose you did an experiment in which you gave uninfected rats and rats infected with toxoplasma a choice between hiding places sprinkled with the urine of cats and rabbits . which of the following results would you expect to observe ?
if stimulating a brain area causes a behavior , then that 's good evidence that the brain region is involved in that behavior . so like studies with cats in the 1950s showed that stimulating a small almond-shaped area deep in the brain called the amygdala leads to aggressive or predatory behaviors . these things look pretty aggressive to me .	stimulating what brain area in cats resulted in changes to aggressive and predatory behaviors ?	stimulating what brain area in cats resulted in changes to aggressive and predatory behaviors ?
everywhere emerson looked , he saw people leading lives that were based on tradition , that were limited by religious forms and social habits . no one could be themselves , emerson thought , because they were all too busy being what they were supposed to be . emerson wanted to get rid of each of these burdens : the past , religion and social forms , so that each person could find out who they truly were . as he put it : `` history is an impertinence and an injury ; our religion , we have not chosen , but society has chosen for us ... and ... ... society everywhere is in conspiracy against the manhood of every one of its members . ''	emerson was a transcendentalist . a chief tenant of his belief system was that by transcending the influence of society and becoming completely self-reliant , a person could ...	emerson was a transcendentalist . a chief tenant of his belief system was that by transcending the influence of society and becoming completely self-reliant , a person could ...
these intervals are grouped together into pre-reproductive ( 0-14 ) , reproductive ( 15-44 ) , and post-reproductive years ( 45 and up ) . such a population pyramid can be a powerful predictor of future population trends . for example , rwanda 's population pyramid shows it to be a fast-growing country , with most of the population being in the youngest age groups at the bottom of the pyramid . the number will grow rapidly in the coming years .	as a country slows in population growth , its pyramid shape will	as a country slows in population growth , its pyramid shape will
this is called inflation . on the other hand , if the money supply remains the same , while more goods and services are produced , each dollar 's value would increase in a process known as deflation . so which is worse ?	one effect of deflation is :	one effect of deflation is :
but the jellyfish 's relatively simple anatomy does n't prevent it from having some remarkable abilities . one kind of box jellyfish has 24 eyes . scientists think it can see color and form images within its simple nervous system .	some jellyfish have panorama vision with __________ eyes that allow them to look in 360 degrees .	some jellyfish have panorama vision with __________ eyes that allow them to look in 360 degrees .
so with a treaty like that , the war must have had a negligible impact on american history , right ? except , no ; the war of 1812 confirmed that the us would exist . britain would never invade american again ( until 1961 ) .	the war of 1812 is responsible for all of the following except :	the war of 1812 is responsible for all of the following except :
at the center of this structure , he placed a sturdy rock for mary and jesus to sit high above their visitors . with this decision , botticelli seemed to say christianity will be built on sturdier stuff than rome . botticelli then populated the space with important men from his city . on the right side , he paints the man who paid for this work , gaspare del lama , looking out at the viewer and confidently pointing at himself so that there is no question who is responsible for this masterpiece . though born the son of a barber , del lama amassed a good sum of money through currency exchange in his lifetime . he earned enough money to buy a burial chapel and decorate it with a pretty painting .	which of these is a reason guasparre del lama commissioned botticelli ?	which of these is a reason guasparre del lama commissioned botticelli ?
up top ! yes . first ones to get it .	near the end of the video , it is stated that a `` no '' was much more helpful than a `` yes '' . is trying to disprove your theory a good way to get at the truth ?	near the end of the video , it is stated that a `` no '' was much more helpful than a `` yes '' . is trying to disprove your theory a good way to get at the truth ?
then , when that reasonable expectation was not met by the tripping sidekick , irony would have been exemplified . another example . a senior citizen texting and blogging .	what is not a good example of irony ?	what is not a good example of irony ?
it also maintains our posture by holding us upright . skeletal muscles form the bulk of the muscular system , make up about 30-40 % of the body 's weight , and generate most of its motion . some muscles are familiar to us , like the pectorals and the biceps .	what proportion of the body ’ s weight does the skeletal system make up ?	what proportion of the body ’ s weight does the skeletal system make up ?
my fourth grade teacher showed us the whole numbers laid out in a row , and below each we have its double . as you can see , the bottom row contains all the even numbers , and we have a one-to-one match . that is , there are as many even numbers as there are numbers .	infinity plus one . in a magical town in a far away land , the only place where visitors can stay is the infinite hotel . this hotel has rooms numbered 1 , 2 , 3 , and so on , one room for each positive whole number . one day , a mathematician on vacation showed up at the infinite hotel and asked for a room . “ i ’ m sorry , ” said the proprietor , “ all the rooms are taken. ” “ that ’ s no problem , ” said the mathematician . “ you can still free up a room for me. ” he then explained to the proprietor what to do . “ oh , i see ! ” exclaimed the proprietor . “ very clever ! we ’ ll do that and then put you in the empty room. ” what did the mathematician tell the proprietor to do ?	infinity plus one . in a magical town in a far away land , the only place where visitors can stay is the infinite hotel . this hotel has rooms numbered 1 , 2 , 3 , and so on , one room for each positive whole number . one day , a mathematician on vacation showed up at the infinite hotel and asked for a room . “ i ’ m sorry , ” said the proprietor , “ all the rooms are taken. ” “ that ’ s no problem , ” said the mathematician . “ you can still free up a room for me. ” he then explained to the proprietor what to do . “ oh , i see ! ” exclaimed the proprietor . “ very clever ! we ’ ll do that and then put you in the empty room. ” what did the mathematician tell the proprietor to do ?
in ancient greece , violent internal conflict between bordering neighbors and war with foreign invaders was a way of life , and greeks were considered premier warriors . most greek city-states surrounded themselves with massive defensive walls for added protection . sparta in its prime was a different story , finding walls unnecessary when it had an army of the most feared warriors in the ancient world . so what was sparta doing differently than everyone else to produce such fierce soldiers ? to answer that question , we turn to the written accounts of that time .	which of the following greek historians did not write about ancient sparta ?	which of the following greek historians did not write about ancient sparta ?
many interactions between robot proteins require some kind of push , think robot minimum wage . a few small but crucial forms of money are transferred between proteins to provide this push . electrons , protons , oxygen , and phosphate groups are the main chemical currencies , and they 're kept in small molecular wallets or larger tote bags to keep them safe .	which of the following is not a form of cellular “ money ” ?	which of the following is not a form of cellular “ money ” ?
these were called mystery plays because they revealed the mystery of god 's word . at about the same time , the clergy also developed plays about the saints of the church , called miracle plays . in the beginning , the clergy members acted out bible stories on the steps outside the cathedral .	in what order were the plays developed ?	in what order were the plays developed ?
biodiesel . now , you might be wondering whether all this hassle over recycling used cooking oil is even worth it . after all , how much energy can it possibly generate ?	what do most people do with their used vegetable oil ?	what do most people do with their used vegetable oil ?
biodiesel . now , you might be wondering whether all this hassle over recycling used cooking oil is even worth it . after all , how much energy can it possibly generate ?	if you had the power to set up a home collection service for used cooking oil in your city , what would you do , and how would it look like ?	if you had the power to set up a home collection service for used cooking oil in your city , what would you do , and how would it look like ?
i 'm going to take the other end , i 'm going to plug in into my ipod . it 's my iphone actually . do you guys know how your earbuds work in your ears ?	how did gage use his iphone during his experiment ?	how did gage use his iphone during his experiment ?
so arsenic used to much more common in the community than it is nowadays . it was used as a pigment in the nineteenth century for green wallpaper contained copper arsenite , because there weren ’ t any other good green pigments to make the wallpaper . and when the rooms were damp , victorians didn ’ t like opening the windows in their rooms , then mould would grow on the wall .	which arsenic compound was used in the 19th century as a pigment for green wallpaper ?	which arsenic compound was used in the 19th century as a pigment for green wallpaper ?
and then it hit me . `` she 's a heart breaker , my fractal femme fatale . will she do ? ''	try inventing your own fractal .	try inventing your own fractal .
so it has to be somebody much in advance of us and maybe as much in advance of us as we are in advance of the ants , say , or the worms . - [ studs ] you , carl sagan , scientist , astronomer , enlighten me . you think that indeed there may be some sort of intelligence out there ?	carl sagan argues that if we were to receive a message from an extraterrestrial civilization , the civilization would have to be far more sophisticated and technologically advanced than our 's . what evidence does he use to back this up ?	carl sagan argues that if we were to receive a message from an extraterrestrial civilization , the civilization would have to be far more sophisticated and technologically advanced than our 's . what evidence does he use to back this up ?
so it has to be somebody much in advance of us and maybe as much in advance of us as we are in advance of the ants , say , or the worms . - [ studs ] you , carl sagan , scientist , astronomer , enlighten me . you think that indeed there may be some sort of intelligence out there ?	what are the three reasons why carl sagan believes in the likely existence of extraterrestrial beings ?	what are the three reasons why carl sagan believes in the likely existence of extraterrestrial beings ?
-- and you just won on rock that means that they played scissors , now they 're going to think that you 're going to play rock again , which means that they 're going to play paper , which means that you should play scissors and so again , you basically end up going backwards around the triangle so play what they just played , and the game go backwards or an easier way to say it then is to play what they just played . so in general , if you 're cycling through rock-paper-scissors , your best strategy is to go backwards and go scissors-paper-rock , and cycle through that way brady : how much -- is this mathematics or is this psychology ? this is -- i ca n't tell if this is all to do with probability , or it 's just about knowing how humans think dr. fry : well , i think that a balance of the two , so it 's rooted in game theory which is the mathematics of looking at decisions and strategies , so in any situation where you 're competing against someone , and you best move is dependent on what the other person is playing , you can frame in game theory brady : numberphile is brought to you by the mathematical sciences research institute but this video has also been sponsored by squarespace squarespace is a great service for designing , hosting , creating your own websites and as probably mentioned before , i use it myself no matter what you want to do -- a blog , podcast , shop , portfolio , squarespace is as easy as 1-2-3 but it 's not just amateurs who benefit from squarespace and all its brilliant templates , their developer platform will also give you full control over all the code , letting you tweak the html , css and javascript into your heart 's content and if you like stats , and you 're watching numberphile , you 'll really like watching squarespace 's analytics , their 3rd party integrations , and their easy-to-use commerce if you 'd like to find out more , go to squarespace.com/numberphile you can try it all out , you can set up your own site , and you can do it all for free , no credit card required and then if you do like it , and decide to opt in , use the offer code numberphile and you get 10 % off so thank you very much to squarespace for supporting this video and thank you to you for watching it	is this strategy based on mathematics or psychology ?	is this strategy based on mathematics or psychology ?
because the genome pieces are so very small , we need some way to increase the signal we can detect from each of the individual letters . in the most common method , scientists use enzymes to make thousands of copies of each genome piece . so , we now have thousands of replicas of each of the genome pieces , all with the same sequence of a 's , t 's , g 's , and c 's .	once we have the sequences for each piece of dna from a genome , scientists ________ .	once we have the sequences for each piece of dna from a genome , scientists ________ .
in 1990 , a consortium of 20 international research centers embarked on the world 's largest biological collaboration to accomplish this mission . the human genome project proposed to sequence the entire human genome over 15 years with $ 3 billion of public funds . then , seven years before its scheduled completion , a private company called celera announced that they could accomplish the same goal in just three years and at a fraction of the cost .	when the human genome project was proposed , what was the projected time to completion ?	when the human genome project was proposed , what was the projected time to completion ?
in 1990 , a consortium of 20 international research centers embarked on the world 's largest biological collaboration to accomplish this mission . the human genome project proposed to sequence the entire human genome over 15 years with $ 3 billion of public funds . then , seven years before its scheduled completion , a private company called celera announced that they could accomplish the same goal in just three years and at a fraction of the cost .	what sequencing method did the human genome project and celera use to sequence fragments of dna ?	what sequencing method did the human genome project and celera use to sequence fragments of dna ?
in 1990 , a consortium of 20 international research centers embarked on the world 's largest biological collaboration to accomplish this mission . the human genome project proposed to sequence the entire human genome over 15 years with $ 3 billion of public funds . then , seven years before its scheduled completion , a private company called celera announced that they could accomplish the same goal in just three years and at a fraction of the cost .	how long does it take to sequence a human genome using the latest technology ?	how long does it take to sequence a human genome using the latest technology ?
in 1990 , a consortium of 20 international research centers embarked on the world 's largest biological collaboration to accomplish this mission . the human genome project proposed to sequence the entire human genome over 15 years with $ 3 billion of public funds . then , seven years before its scheduled completion , a private company called celera announced that they could accomplish the same goal in just three years and at a fraction of the cost .	the human genome project finished years ahead of schedule , likely because celera entered the race to sequence the human genome . what are some pros and cons of competition in science ?	the human genome project finished years ahead of schedule , likely because celera entered the race to sequence the human genome . what are some pros and cons of competition in science ?
[ go project films ] [ wind sounds ] [ a film by emmanuel vaughan-lee ] [ wind sounds ] [ engine sounds ] [ yukon river , alaska ] [ engine sounds ] [ engine sounds continue ] [ i 'm hungry . where 's the fish ? ] [ the yup'ik peoples have lived off king salmon for centuries . ]	yup'ik fisherman ray waska says when he was young , the average fish was 30 pounds . today , he says , the fish are weighing how much ?	yup'ik fisherman ray waska says when he was young , the average fish was 30 pounds . today , he says , the fish are weighing how much ?
different kinds of light are all waves , they just have different wavelengths and frequencies . if you know the wavelength or frequency of a wave of light , you can also figure out its energy . long wavelengths have low energies , while short wavelengths have high energies .	explain the differences in wavelength and frequency .	explain the differences in wavelength and frequency .
and now that you know the true story about us bats , you can learn how to protect such heroic animals . install a properly designed bat box , one of the easiest ways to provide shelter for bats . discourage the use of pesticides , which can harm bats when we try to feed on the insects you want to get rid of in the first place .	explain two ways that bats provide help for farmers who grow food plants .	explain two ways that bats provide help for farmers who grow food plants .
without treatment , the whole tooth may become infected and require removal all due to those sugar-loving bacteria . the more sugar our food contains , the more our teeth are put at risk . those cavemen would hardly have indulged in sugary treats , however , so what caused their cavities ?	which food type contains very little sugar ?	which food type contains very little sugar ?
microscopic procedures use small instruments or lasers to make precise incisions of one or two millimeters in the cornea , while an ultrasound probe breaks up and removes the cataracted lens with minimal trauma to the eye . low-tech versions of this operation have made the surgery quick and inexpensive , helping it spread across the developing world . places like aravind eye hospital in india have pioneered high-volume , low-cost cataract surgery for as little as six dollars . why then , with all these advances , are there still so many blind people in the world ?	having a high-quality operation available for cataract surgery in low-income countries is part of the solution to reducing cataract blindness . however , despite the availability of these procedures , many people remain blind . what other barriers exist to cataract blind individuals actually receiving their required surgery ?	having a high-quality operation available for cataract surgery in low-income countries is part of the solution to reducing cataract blindness . however , despite the availability of these procedures , many people remain blind . what other barriers exist to cataract blind individuals actually receiving their required surgery ?
lovely ! i ’ ve just realised that erbium is the most crucial element for the internet of all the elements on the periodic table , and so i want to take you across to materials engineering where we can see a demonstration which will explain to you why it ’ s so important , and why without erbium many of you couldn ’ t be watching this video . erbium is another lanthanide metal . it ’ s soft , silvery , quite malleable , very reactive towards oxygen and water and , i suppose , for us right now it ’ s quite significant , because it was originally discovered from a mineral which was found in this quarry .	why did the professor say that erbium is the most crucial element of the internet ?	why did the professor say that erbium is the most crucial element of the internet ?
that suggests that these animals make value judgements around sensory input instead of just reacting reflexively to harm . meanwhile , crabs have been known to repeatedly rub a spot on their bodies where they 've received an electric shock . and even sea slugs flinch when they know they 're about to receive a noxious stimulus . that means they have some memory of physical sensations .	crabs have been shown to respond to noxious stimuli by :	crabs have been shown to respond to noxious stimuli by :
throughout the course of the day , both of you continue to periodically move south towards the bulk of the ice cream buyers , until both of you eventually end up at the center of the beach , back to back , each serving 50 % of the ice-cream-hungry beachgoers . at this point , you and your competitive cousin have reached what game theorists call a nash equilibrium - the point where neither of you can improve your position by deviating from your current strategy . your original strategy , where you were each a quarter mile from the middle of the beach , did n't last , because it was n't a nash equilibrium . either of you could move your cart towards the other to sell more ice cream .	what is a nash equilibrium ?	what is a nash equilibrium ?
throughout the course of the day , both of you continue to periodically move south towards the bulk of the ice cream buyers , until both of you eventually end up at the center of the beach , back to back , each serving 50 % of the ice-cream-hungry beachgoers . at this point , you and your competitive cousin have reached what game theorists call a nash equilibrium - the point where neither of you can improve your position by deviating from your current strategy . your original strategy , where you were each a quarter mile from the middle of the beach , did n't last , because it was n't a nash equilibrium . either of you could move your cart towards the other to sell more ice cream .	how does a nash equilibrium affect consumers ?	how does a nash equilibrium affect consumers ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby today , we 're going to look at the world of rome through the eyes of a young girl . here she is , drawing a picture of herself in the atrium of her father 's enormous house .	who wrote all the recorded history of ancient rome that we have today ?	who wrote all the recorded history of ancient rome that we have today ?
in one way or another , bioluminescence improves a living thing 's chances of survival . take the firefly . it 's ability to glow green helps it attract a mate on a warm , summer night , but it 's just one of many living things that can glow .	which of the following is not a component of the bioluminescent reaction in a firefly ?	which of the following is not a component of the bioluminescent reaction in a firefly ?
rodent and canine brains consume 5 % of total body energy . monkey brains use 10 % . an adult human brain , which accounts for only 2 % of the body 's mass , consumes 20 % of daily glucose burned .	dolphins , whales , and elephants have much larger brains than we do . they are also documented to have complex societies . elephants even seem to mourn their dead , implying that we are not alone in being able to sense other minds and infer their states . what would it take to understand the mind of another species ?	dolphins , whales , and elephants have much larger brains than we do . they are also documented to have complex societies . elephants even seem to mourn their dead , implying that we are not alone in being able to sense other minds and infer their states . what would it take to understand the mind of another species ?
rodent and canine brains consume 5 % of total body energy . monkey brains use 10 % . an adult human brain , which accounts for only 2 % of the body 's mass , consumes 20 % of daily glucose burned .	dog owners know the “ guilty look ” when a pet has pooped on the carpet or violated some other rule . but how much is due to what the dog knows versus what the owner knows ? that is , we project out own mental states onto others , both human and not . what might be some downsides to having brains as smart as ours , that seek out patterns even where none exist ?	dog owners know the “ guilty look ” when a pet has pooped on the carpet or violated some other rule . but how much is due to what the dog knows versus what the owner knows ? that is , we project out own mental states onto others , both human and not . what might be some downsides to having brains as smart as ours , that seek out patterns even where none exist ?
there 's a quote usually attributed to the writer mark twain that goes , `` a lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes . '' funny thing about that .	before the 20th century , because it took longer to publish writing , it was more accurate .	before the 20th century , because it took longer to publish writing , it was more accurate .
there 's a quote usually attributed to the writer mark twain that goes , `` a lie can travel halfway around the world while the truth is putting on its shoes . '' funny thing about that .	what makes circularly reported facts so difficult to correct ?	what makes circularly reported facts so difficult to correct ?
he said , `` no , i do n't like this job . i love this job . '' we can have passion for a profession .	the video shows there are many possible career passions . you can have passion for an industry , a profession , a product , working with people , etc . 1 ) what is your passion ? describe what you love to do . 2 ) now use those words to help you write your own perfect job description . if you saw an ad for the job you would really love , what would it say ?	the video shows there are many possible career passions . you can have passion for an industry , a profession , a product , working with people , etc . 1 ) what is your passion ? describe what you love to do . 2 ) now use those words to help you write your own perfect job description . if you saw an ad for the job you would really love , what would it say ?
for increased efficiency , blue whales have evolved to use a feeding strategy called lunge feeding . basically , the whale accelerates towards a prey patch and opens its mouth wide . to increase the capacity , its mouth expands .	why do you think animals evolve to such a wide range of sizes ?	why do you think animals evolve to such a wide range of sizes ?
on october 22 , he announced that the the u.s. navy would intercept all shipments to cuba . there was just one problem : a naval blockade was considered an act of war . although the president called it a quarantine that did not block basic necessities , the soviets did n't appreciate the distinction . in an outraged letter to kennedy , khrushchev wrote , `` the violation of freedom to use international waters and international airspace is an act of aggression which pushes mankind toward the abyss of world nuclear missile war . ''	the united states called the blockade a quarantine because :	the united states called the blockade a quarantine because :
comparing what they 're experiencing to normal , temporary feelings of sadness can make them feel guilty for struggling . even just talking about depression openly can help . for example , research shows that asking someone about suicidal thoughts actually reduces their suicide risk .	how long , on average , do people suffer in silence from serious depression before they seek medical help ?	how long , on average , do people suffer in silence from serious depression before they seek medical help ?
this double delivery fills the liver with nutrients , that it then sorts , processes and stores with the help of thousands of tiny internal processing plants , known as lobules . both blood flows also deliver the oxygen that the liver needs to function . the blood that is received from the intestine contains carbohydrates , fats , and vitamins and other nutrients dissolved in it from the food you 've consumed .	the liver receives blood from :	the liver receives blood from :
this double delivery fills the liver with nutrients , that it then sorts , processes and stores with the help of thousands of tiny internal processing plants , known as lobules . both blood flows also deliver the oxygen that the liver needs to function . the blood that is received from the intestine contains carbohydrates , fats , and vitamins and other nutrients dissolved in it from the food you 've consumed .	an important function of the liver is to :	an important function of the liver is to :
this double delivery fills the liver with nutrients , that it then sorts , processes and stores with the help of thousands of tiny internal processing plants , known as lobules . both blood flows also deliver the oxygen that the liver needs to function . the blood that is received from the intestine contains carbohydrates , fats , and vitamins and other nutrients dissolved in it from the food you 've consumed .	what is in the blood when it enters the liver ?	what is in the blood when it enters the liver ?
in fact , they were often horrified at the prospect of taking home a copy . this magical thinking about objects is n't something we grow out of . rather it persists into adulthood while becoming ever more elaborate .	researchers demonstrated children ’ s magical thinking about their toys by showing that they :	researchers demonstrated children ’ s magical thinking about their toys by showing that they :
in fact , they were often horrified at the prospect of taking home a copy . this magical thinking about objects is n't something we grow out of . rather it persists into adulthood while becoming ever more elaborate .	what are some of the almost magical ways that we think about the connection between objects and their owners ?	what are some of the almost magical ways that we think about the connection between objects and their owners ?
so what 's causing all this motion ? molecules move because they absorb energy from their surroundings , mainly in the form of heat or electromagnetic radiation . when this energy gets transferred to the molecules , they vibrate , rotate , or translate faster .	molecules move faster when they absorb energy in the form of heat or electromagnetic radiation . what do you think will happen to a molecule in case it will absorb a really large amount of energy ? can you think of an example for such a large energy source ?	molecules move faster when they absorb energy in the form of heat or electromagnetic radiation . what do you think will happen to a molecule in case it will absorb a really large amount of energy ? can you think of an example for such a large energy source ?
so what 's causing all this motion ? molecules move because they absorb energy from their surroundings , mainly in the form of heat or electromagnetic radiation . when this energy gets transferred to the molecules , they vibrate , rotate , or translate faster .	microwave ovens use microwave radiation as an energy source to move molecules and warmth . does this mean that if we ’ ll simultaneously heat two plates ( one made out of plastic and the other of glass ) they will have the same final temperature ? why ?	microwave ovens use microwave radiation as an energy source to move molecules and warmth . does this mean that if we ’ ll simultaneously heat two plates ( one made out of plastic and the other of glass ) they will have the same final temperature ? why ?
the two old english words , when mashed together , became wilderness , meaning a tract of uncultivated land , primarily inhabited by undomesticated beasts . from the word wilderness , the word wilder was born . to wilder someone was to lead him astray or lure him into the woods . in the 1600 's , the prefix be , meaning thoroughly , was compounded with wilder as a way of tacking on a little extra punch .	what does it mean to wilder someone ?	what does it mean to wilder someone ?
remember those increased summer time daylight hours ? and solar energy per square kilometer increases as the sun gets higher in the sky . so , when the sun 's at an angle , the amount of energy delivered to each square of the sunlit area is less .	how could you model the change in solar energy in a given area with a protractor , flashlight , pencil , and a ruler ?	how could you model the change in solar energy in a given area with a protractor , flashlight , pencil , and a ruler ?
completely dry snow is very difficult to ski on because there 's too much friction between the jagged snowflakes and the ski surface . so what 's happening is that as skis move , they rub the surface of the snow and warm it up , creating a thin layer of water , which helps them slide along . so technically , it 's not really snow skiing , but water skiing . but it is true that no matter how hard you look , you 're almost definitely not going to find two identical snowflakes , and that 's a mystery that scientists are still trying to solve , though we know that it has to do with the many possible branching points in snowflake formation , and the differences in temperature and humidity , and while we wait for the answer , we can enjoy watching these tiny fractals falling from the sky .	why can a skier slide over snow ?	why can a skier slide over snow ?
why not spice it up with homemade special effects ? a film is simply a series of images played in sequence to create the illusion of motion . if you manipulate those images , crazy things can happen .	how is the illusion of motion created in film ?	how is the illusion of motion created in film ?
why not spice it up with homemade special effects ? a film is simply a series of images played in sequence to create the illusion of motion . if you manipulate those images , crazy things can happen .	in the video `` fly there , ” what type of sequence of images creates the illusion of flying ?	in the video `` fly there , ” what type of sequence of images creates the illusion of flying ?
these determine whether a change occurs in a system and how energy flows if it does . in chemistry , energetics deals with the attractive and repulsive forces between particles at the molecular level . this scale is so small that there are more water molecules in a single glass than there are known stars in the universe .	energetics deal with :	energetics deal with :
it 's a polymer , meaning it 's made of long chains of repeating units of atoms strung together . a ptfe chain has a backbone of carbon atoms , each of which is attached to two fluorines . the fluorine atoms surround the carbon like armor , spiraling around the chain , and the bond between carbon and fluorine is incredibly tight . like a couple that ignores everyone except each other , carbon and fluorine interact so strongly that the normal , intermolecular forces that help substances stick to each other do n't stand a chance .	why do fluorine atoms in ptfe line up in a spiral fashion around the carbon backbone ?	why do fluorine atoms in ptfe line up in a spiral fashion around the carbon backbone ?
you know , the kind of scale you weigh yourself on . when you step on a scale to weigh yourself , there are two forces involved . one , gravity pulls you down .	when you step on a scale to weigh yourself , there are two forces involved . what are they ?	when you step on a scale to weigh yourself , there are two forces involved . what are they ?
nowadays , one of the main uses of rubidium , is actually in physics rather than in chemistry because you can heat up rubidium metal to a high temperature and get a vapour of rubidium atoms in a specially constructed heated cell and you can get very interesting effects from shining very intense laser light into rubidium atoms , and the rubidium atoms can do a whole series of different , very elegant physics experiments . so rubidium has got a life of its own in physics but in chemistry , it ’ s perhaps slightly neglected . was that it ?	why did the professor say , “ rubidium has got a life of its own in physics but in chemistry , it is perhaps slightly neglected ” ?	why did the professor say , “ rubidium has got a life of its own in physics but in chemistry , it is perhaps slightly neglected ” ?
and in the late 18th century , a young student named franz joseph gall had observed that the best memorizers in his class had the most prominent eyes and decided that this was due to higher development in the adjacent part of the brain . as a physician , gall went on to establish the study of phrenology , which held that strong mental faculties corresponded to highly developed brain regions , observable as bumps in the skull . the widespread popularity of phrenology throughout the early 19th century tipped the scales towards aubertin 's localism .	gall ’ s once popular method of measuring the skull to determine a person ’ s strong and weak mental faculties did not hold up to scrutiny and is now known to be pseudoscience . why didn ’ t it hold up and why should this matter ?	gall ’ s once popular method of measuring the skull to determine a person ’ s strong and weak mental faculties did not hold up to scrutiny and is now known to be pseudoscience . why didn ’ t it hold up and why should this matter ?
and in the late 18th century , a young student named franz joseph gall had observed that the best memorizers in his class had the most prominent eyes and decided that this was due to higher development in the adjacent part of the brain . as a physician , gall went on to establish the study of phrenology , which held that strong mental faculties corresponded to highly developed brain regions , observable as bumps in the skull . the widespread popularity of phrenology throughout the early 19th century tipped the scales towards aubertin 's localism .	gall 's once popular method of measuring bumps on the skull to determine a person 's strongest and weakest brain functions is called :	gall 's once popular method of measuring bumps on the skull to determine a person 's strongest and weakest brain functions is called :
we drink it , we bathe in it , we farm , cook , and clean with it . it 's the most abundant molecule in our bodies . in fact , every life form we know of would die without it .	what is the most abundant element in our bodies ?	what is the most abundant element in our bodies ?
and this is a map of that habitat that we made making maps of food the way we 've always made maps of food . this is how many krill are in this area of the ocean . red areas represent lots of krill and purple basically none . and you can see that around the northern two most islands , which are highlighted with white circles because they are so tiny , it looks like there 's a lot of food to be eaten .	which color ( s ) does the sonar return if it bounces off a group of krill ?	which color ( s ) does the sonar return if it bounces off a group of krill ?
but this requires concreteness about what it would look like to have , say , a radically smaller national government , or , by contrast , a big single-payer healthcare system , a way to hold corporations accountable for their misdeeds , or , instead , a way to free them from onerous regulations . this brings us to the second strategy , choosing a defining fight . all politics is about contrasts .	which of the following statements should be considered when “ choosing a defining fight ” ?	which of the following statements should be considered when “ choosing a defining fight ” ?
martha had a secret ambition to go along with the secret formula : a determination to run her own business . by 1888 , serving as a maid in rochester , new york , she saved enough money -- 360 dollars -- to think of opening a public hairdressing salon . but before she could realize her dream , two blows fell .	martha harper was sent away at age seven by her father to work as a domestic servant , her profession for 25 years until she saved enough money to start her own business . can you think of another entrepreneur or public figure with a similar rags-to-riches story ?	martha harper was sent away at age seven by her father to work as a domestic servant , her profession for 25 years until she saved enough money to start her own business . can you think of another entrepreneur or public figure with a similar rags-to-riches story ?
whereas the dehydrated brain amps up the production of antidiuretic hormone , the over-hydrated brain slows , or even stops , releasing it into the blood . sodium electrolytes in the body become diluted , causing cells to swell . in severe cases , the kidneys ca n't keep up with the resulting volumes of dilute urine .	what processes occur in your body with dehydration ?	what processes occur in your body with dehydration ?
you 've just unleashed a flesh-eating zombie . nouns made from other parts of speech are called nominalizations . academics love them .	nominalizations are	nominalizations are
polonius : `` do you know me , my lord ? '' hamlet : `` excellent well . you 're a fishmonger . ''	theatre in the 1600 ’ s was very limited compared to the entertainment options available to writers and directors . to demonstrate your understanding of this , please select a scene from movie that you have seen in the past year and in a well developed paragraph , describe how it might have been laid out by shakespeare .	theatre in the 1600 ’ s was very limited compared to the entertainment options available to writers and directors . to demonstrate your understanding of this , please select a scene from movie that you have seen in the past year and in a well developed paragraph , describe how it might have been laid out by shakespeare .
polonius : `` do you know me , my lord ? '' hamlet : `` excellent well . you 're a fishmonger . ''	what does fishmonger mean in the context of shakespeare 's play hamlet ?	what does fishmonger mean in the context of shakespeare 's play hamlet ?
these are some of the big questions facing marine conservation biologists today . let 's take fiji , for example . fiji is series of islands in the south pacific ocean .	which is not a major habitat surrounding fiji ?	which is not a major habitat surrounding fiji ?
while it 's true that our orbit 's not perfectly circular , those pictures in our science books , on tv , and in the movies give an exaggerated impression of how elongated our orbit is . in fact , earth 's orbit is very nearly a perfect circle . however , because earth 's orbit is technically an ellipse , even though it does n't look like one , and the sun is n't quite exactly at the center , it means that our distance from the sun does change through the year .	examine the images of earth 's orbit in your textbook , in a magazine , or on the news . do you think that the image is accurate ? why or why not ? could the image be changed or enhanced to make it better ? how ?	examine the images of earth 's orbit in your textbook , in a magazine , or on the news . do you think that the image is accurate ? why or why not ? could the image be changed or enhanced to make it better ? how ?
in fact , the 1982 nobel prize winners also demonstrated that aspirin slows production of thromboxanes , chemicals that cause clumping of platelets , which in turn form blood clots . a landmark clinical trial showed that aspirin reduced heart attack risk by 44 % in participants who took the drug . today , we prescribe it to people at risk of heart attack or stroke because it cuts the likelihood of clots forming in the arteries that supply the heart and brain .	the landmark clinical trial showing a benefit of aspirin on heart attacks lowered risk by what extent ?	the landmark clinical trial showing a benefit of aspirin on heart attacks lowered risk by what extent ?
in fact , the 1982 nobel prize winners also demonstrated that aspirin slows production of thromboxanes , chemicals that cause clumping of platelets , which in turn form blood clots . a landmark clinical trial showed that aspirin reduced heart attack risk by 44 % in participants who took the drug . today , we prescribe it to people at risk of heart attack or stroke because it cuts the likelihood of clots forming in the arteries that supply the heart and brain .	aspirin is one of the various strategies used to prevent heart attacks . what are some of the other approaches people could take to reduce their risk ?	aspirin is one of the various strategies used to prevent heart attacks . what are some of the other approaches people could take to reduce their risk ?
remember , these objects were supposed to be emptied of prevention , of mastery , of the usual seduction between art and viewer , and of the grand , glorious traditions that preceded them . but the fetishization and commodification of minimalist art has complicated and polluted these ideas . what 's less real than million-dollar plywood boxes ?	how does the commodification and fetishization of minimalist art undermine its initial goals and values ?	how does the commodification and fetishization of minimalist art undermine its initial goals and values ?
imagine a police lineup where ten witnesses are asked to identify a bank robber they glimpsed fleeing the crime scene . if six of them pick out the same person , there 's a good chance that 's the real culprit , and if all ten make the same choice , you might think the case is rock solid , but you 'd be wrong .	consider a bank robber fleeing from a bank and jumping into a car . twenty witnesses on the sidewalk get a fleeting glimpse of the man for about 10 seconds each . three days later , during a police lineup all 20 witnesses agree the same suspect is the bank robber . what is the likelihood they have correctly identified the criminal ?	consider a bank robber fleeing from a bank and jumping into a car . twenty witnesses on the sidewalk get a fleeting glimpse of the man for about 10 seconds each . three days later , during a police lineup all 20 witnesses agree the same suspect is the bank robber . what is the likelihood they have correctly identified the criminal ?
imagine a police lineup where ten witnesses are asked to identify a bank robber they glimpsed fleeing the crime scene . if six of them pick out the same person , there 's a good chance that 's the real culprit , and if all ten make the same choice , you might think the case is rock solid , but you 'd be wrong .	consider a hostage situation where a crazed gunman kept 20 peopled detained in a house for a whole week . his face was on full view for a week . the hostages eventually go free and the gunman escapes . later the police capture a person who they think is the gunman . during an identity parade all 20 former hostages agree that the police have caught the correct man . what is the likelihood the police were correct ?	consider a hostage situation where a crazed gunman kept 20 peopled detained in a house for a whole week . his face was on full view for a week . the hostages eventually go free and the gunman escapes . later the police capture a person who they think is the gunman . during an identity parade all 20 former hostages agree that the police have caught the correct man . what is the likelihood the police were correct ?
this will truly be a historic event . accounts of solar eclipses date way back on the written record . the early mesopotamians wrote that the sun was put to shame during the solar eclipse of the 14th century b.c.e .	why are total solar eclipses so rarely seen ?	why are total solar eclipses so rarely seen ?
instead , warren 's judgements have gone down as some of the most liberal in the court 's history . eisenhower later remarked on that appointment as `` the biggest damned-fool mistake '' he ever made . many other factors come up for consideration , as well , including experience , personal loyalties , ethnicity , and gender .	who said “ the biggest damn fool mistake ( he ) ever made ” was to appoint earl warren to the united states supreme court ?	who said “ the biggest damn fool mistake ( he ) ever made ” was to appoint earl warren to the united states supreme court ?
with a few test runs , and some basic mathematical modeling , we can even predict a ball 's path before it starts moving , simply based on its starting conditions . but what would happen if we made a minor change in the table 's shape by pulling it apart a bit , and inserting two small straight edges along the top and bottom ? we can see that as the ball bounces off the flat sides , it begins to move all over the table .	the shape of a billiard table is altered by adding small straight edges ( one on the top and one on the bottom ) . choose the best description of what occurs when a billiard ball is hit :	the shape of a billiard table is altered by adding small straight edges ( one on the top and one on the bottom ) . choose the best description of what occurs when a billiard ball is hit :
almost one billion of these deaths are attributed just to building collisions . with such astounding yearly losses , humans risk more than just the loss of the beautiful colors and songs of birds , they also play an important role in the ecosystem . birds help with insect control , pollination , and disbursing seeds throughout the landscape .	birds play many important roles in the ecosystem that are beneficial to both nature and humans . what are some other examples of species that provide ecosystem services and how do they help ?	birds play many important roles in the ecosystem that are beneficial to both nature and humans . what are some other examples of species that provide ecosystem services and how do they help ?
for one thing , eels have the ability to breathe through their skin . some can even leave the water and move over land for short periods . and , unlike most migratory fish , such as salmon , which spawn in fresh water but live their adult lives in salt water , eels of the genus anguilla migrate in the opposite direction , spawning and breeding in oceans and seas , while spending most of their intervening time in fresh water . if we were to take one such fresh water eel and follow its life story , it would be born in the middle of the north atlantic ocean , about a thousand miles east of bermuda .	some eels travel from fresh water to salt water to ________ .	some eels travel from fresh water to salt water to ________ .
in fact , i 'm leaving . ( laughter ) there have been three themes running through the conference which are relevant to what i want to talk about . one is the extraordinary evidence of human creativity in all of the presentations that we 've had and in all of the people here .	what three conference themes does sir ken cite at the beginning of his talk that are relevant to his point ?	what three conference themes does sir ken cite at the beginning of his talk that are relevant to his point ?
which allowed the government to control what information everyone received . guevara 's idealistic incompetence as finance minister caused massive drops in productivity when he replaced worker pay raises with moral certificates . he suppressed all press freedom , declaring that newspapers were instruments of the oligarchy .	why was che ’ s tenure as finance minister unsuccessful ?	why was che ’ s tenure as finance minister unsuccessful ?
but muhammad did almost from the beginning . and in addition to being an important prophet , he was a good general and in 630 , the islamic community took back mecca . they destroyed the idols in the kabaa , and soon islam was as powerful a political force in the region as it was a religious one .	what did the islamic community do in 630 ?	what did the islamic community do in 630 ?
sometimes that 's a good thing . epigenetic changes are part of normal development . the cells in an embryo start with one master genome .	how many and which types of epigenetic modifications of dna are so far described ?	how many and which types of epigenetic modifications of dna are so far described ?
where the sidewalk ends , by shel silverstein . there is a place where the sidewalk ends and before the street begins , and there the grass grows soft and white , and there the sun burns crimson bright , and there the moon-bird rests from his flight to cool in the peppermint wind .	what description best fits the style of music that accompanies the piece ?	what description best fits the style of music that accompanies the piece ?
where the sidewalk ends , by shel silverstein . there is a place where the sidewalk ends and before the street begins , and there the grass grows soft and white , and there the sun burns crimson bright , and there the moon-bird rests from his flight to cool in the peppermint wind .	do you think the lego sculptures adequately illustrated the poem ? why or why not ? if not , what do you think would have been a more fitting medium ?	do you think the lego sculptures adequately illustrated the poem ? why or why not ? if not , what do you think would have been a more fitting medium ?
that may sound straighforward enough , but it gets incredibly complicated as soon as anyone tries to put the idea into practice . what exactly are the basic human rights ? who gets to pick them ?	some critics argue that the concept of human rights has become little more than a buzzword with no concrete impact . what are the main limitations of human rights today , and what do you think could and should be done to strengthen the international protection of basic rights and freedoms ?	some critics argue that the concept of human rights has become little more than a buzzword with no concrete impact . what are the main limitations of human rights today , and what do you think could and should be done to strengthen the international protection of basic rights and freedoms ?
that may sound straighforward enough , but it gets incredibly complicated as soon as anyone tries to put the idea into practice . what exactly are the basic human rights ? who gets to pick them ?	explain in a nutshell the concept of human rights—provide your own definition and offer a few examples of basic human rights .	explain in a nutshell the concept of human rights—provide your own definition and offer a few examples of basic human rights .
but there was more to come . early this century , scientists studying the outer reaches of the universe confirmed that not only is everything moving apart from everything else , as you would expect in a universe that began in hot , dense big bang , but that the universe 's expansion also seems to be accelerating . what 's that about ?	the universe 's expansion seems to be ________ .	the universe 's expansion seems to be ________ .
but there was more to come . early this century , scientists studying the outer reaches of the universe confirmed that not only is everything moving apart from everything else , as you would expect in a universe that began in hot , dense big bang , but that the universe 's expansion also seems to be accelerating . what 's that about ?	give possible explanations for why the universe is expanding .	give possible explanations for why the universe is expanding .
and i 'd like to illustrate this by telling you the real story about how we discovered how geckos stick . first you need to get involved . you need to do curiosity-driven research yourself .	what did tanya , a student in robert full 's lab , need to figure out before she could answer her question ?	what did tanya , a student in robert full 's lab , need to figure out before she could answer her question ?
so rather than being a cause of mental distress , nostalgia can be a restorative way of coping with it . for instance , when people experience negative emotional states , they tend to naturally use nostalgia to reduce distress and restore well-being . today , it seems that nostalgia is everywhere , partially because advertisers have discovered how powerful it is as a marketing technique .	how might nostalgia serve to increase wellbeing when people experience distressing states such as loneliness ?	how might nostalgia serve to increase wellbeing when people experience distressing states such as loneliness ?
and that means that on a hot day , the molecules in the air around you are spinning , stretching , bending , and generally shooting around much faster than on a cold day . now , hot and cold , by the way , are relative terms . they 're always used to compare one thing to something else . so , on that hot summer day , the air molecules have more kinetic energy than the molecules in your skin .	evaluate the statement “ there is no such thing as ‘ cold. ’ there is just the absence of heat. ” is this true ? why or why not ?	evaluate the statement “ there is no such thing as ‘ cold. ’ there is just the absence of heat. ” is this true ? why or why not ?
it also contains phagocytic cells that help clean up any bone or cartilage debris that ends up in the joint . but the reason it 's important for knuckle cracking is that , like other fluids in your body , it contains lots of dissolved gas molecules . knuckle-crackers know that to get that satisfying pop , you stretch the joint farther than it normally goes by bending your fingers backwards , for example .	describe what happens to a molecule of dissolved gas from the time just before the joint is popped to about twenty minutes afterwards .	describe what happens to a molecule of dissolved gas from the time just before the joint is popped to about twenty minutes afterwards .
aztecs used cacao beans as currency and drank chocolate at royal feasts , gave it to soldiers as a reward for success in battle , and used it in rituals . the first transatlantic chocolate encounter occurred in 1519 when hernán cortés visited the court of moctezuma at tenochtitlan . as recorded by cortés 's lieutenant , the king had 50 jugs of the drink brought out and poured into golden cups .	the first transatlantic chocolate encounter occurred in :	the first transatlantic chocolate encounter occurred in :
aztecs used cacao beans as currency and drank chocolate at royal feasts , gave it to soldiers as a reward for success in battle , and used it in rituals . the first transatlantic chocolate encounter occurred in 1519 when hernán cortés visited the court of moctezuma at tenochtitlan . as recorded by cortés 's lieutenant , the king had 50 jugs of the drink brought out and poured into golden cups .	which european country explored the seas and encountered chocolate first ?	which european country explored the seas and encountered chocolate first ?
by the same token , his little sister , whose weight is only a quarter of yours , could lift you by sitting four times as far as you . seesaws may be fun , but the implications and possible uses of levers get much more impressive than that . with a big enough lever , you can lift some pretty heavy things .	levers pivot on the _____ .	levers pivot on the _____ .
timing of these natural signs has remained consistent until recently . increasing global temperature is causing rhythms of nature to shift . bud burst , the day when a tree or plant 's leaf or flower buds open , is occurring earlier in the year for some species .	list some major contributions to the shift in `` nature 's rhythms '' we 've experienced in the past decade .	list some major contributions to the shift in `` nature 's rhythms '' we 've experienced in the past decade .
could he but manage to stir , the spell would vanish instantly . '' even though dr. mitchell was the first to observe patients in a state of sleep paralysis , it 's so common that nearly every culture throughout time has had some kind of paranormal explanation for it . in medieval europe , you might think that an incubus , a sex-hungry demon in male form , visited you in the night .	even though there is a scientific explanation for the phenomenon of sleep paralysis , people all over the worlds still have paranormal explanations for it . why do you think that is ?	even though there is a scientific explanation for the phenomenon of sleep paralysis , people all over the worlds still have paranormal explanations for it . why do you think that is ?
and they 're not always necessary , like when people can simply agree to settle their disputes . but juries have their advantages . when properly selected , jurors are more representative of the general population and do n't have the same incentives as prosecutors , legislators , or judges seeking reelection or promotion .	the role of juries has expanded in some other countries , such as japan and china . why might juries be beneficial in those places ?	the role of juries has expanded in some other countries , such as japan and china . why might juries be beneficial in those places ?
three - poems often feature intense feelings , from rumi 's spiritual poetry to pablo neruda 's `` ode to an onion . '' poetry , like art itself , has a way of challenging simple definitions . while the rhythmic patterns of the earliest poems were a way to remember stories even before the advent of writing , a poem does n't need to be lyrical .	in what way was joanna smith ’ s tweet like a poem ?	in what way was joanna smith ’ s tweet like a poem ?
three - poems often feature intense feelings , from rumi 's spiritual poetry to pablo neruda 's `` ode to an onion . '' poetry , like art itself , has a way of challenging simple definitions . while the rhythmic patterns of the earliest poems were a way to remember stories even before the advent of writing , a poem does n't need to be lyrical .	find an example from a novel or short story that reads like poetry . what makes it sound poetic ?	find an example from a novel or short story that reads like poetry . what makes it sound poetic ?
one proponent of this sort of idea was leopold kronecker , a professor of mathematics in 19th century germany . his belief is summed up in his famous statement : `` god created the natural numbers , all else is the work of man . '' during mathematician david hilbert 's lifetime , there was a push to establish mathematics as a logical construct .	what mathematician believed that `` god created the natural numbers ... all else is the work of man '' ?	what mathematician believed that `` god created the natural numbers ... all else is the work of man '' ?
but once they figured out the right proportions of ingredients to create a blast , they began using the powder even more , creating fireworks to keep evil spirits away and bombs to defend themselves against mongol invaders . it was these mongols , most likely , who spread the invention of gunpowder across the world . after fielding chinese attacks , they learned how to produce the powder themselves and brought it with them on their conquests in persia and india .	the mongols constantly invaded the chinese . how did the chinese utilize gunpowder during these invasions ?	the mongols constantly invaded the chinese . how did the chinese utilize gunpowder during these invasions ?
hafnium is , i think , an element to watch . at the moment , it does not have many uses but there is a strong opinion that hafnium is going to be used in making layers on computer chips like this , and that hafnium oxide will have better properties than some of the other oxides that are used .	from where is hafnium´s name derived ?	from where is hafnium´s name derived ?
organisms absorbing other organisms was one way species adapted to the changing environmental conditions of their surroundings . this little story highlights what biologists call the endosymbiotic theory , the current best explanation of how complex cells evolved . there 's a lot of evidence that supports this theory , but let 's look at three main pieces .	the endosymbiotic theory explains how organelles inside eukaryotic cells are descended from ancient _____	the endosymbiotic theory explains how organelles inside eukaryotic cells are descended from ancient _____
organisms absorbing other organisms was one way species adapted to the changing environmental conditions of their surroundings . this little story highlights what biologists call the endosymbiotic theory , the current best explanation of how complex cells evolved . there 's a lot of evidence that supports this theory , but let 's look at three main pieces .	the endosymbiotic theory provides a way to explain the complexity of eukaryotic cells . this explanation is based on :	the endosymbiotic theory provides a way to explain the complexity of eukaryotic cells . this explanation is based on :
what about the systems that depend on gravity , like your muscles or your balance system or the heart and blood vessels ? would they develop normally , or would they be different in some way ? one reason why you might think that it would go down a different pathway is from an experiment that was done some time ago by two neuroscientists called hubel and wiesel .	what would be different if you grew up in a system without gravity ?	what would be different if you grew up in a system without gravity ?
there ’ s a similarly uplifting message to be pulled from the work of pieter brueghel . his central work , 'the dutch proverbs , ' presents a comically disenchanted view of human nature . everyone , he suggests , is pretty much deranged : here ’ s a man throwing his money into the river ; there ’ s a soldier squatting on the fire and burning his trousers ; someone is intently bashing his head against a brick wall ; someone else is biting a pillar .	pieter bruegel 's painting the dutch proverbs makes the statement that ...	pieter bruegel 's painting the dutch proverbs makes the statement that ...
but when the quartz is heated high enough the extra energy makes the molecules vibrate until they break the bonds holding them together and become a flowing liquid , the same way that ice melts into water . unlike water , though , liquid silicon dioxide does not reform into a crystal solid when it cools . instead , as the molecules lose energy , they are less and less able to move into an ordered position , and the result is what is called an amorphous solid .	when liquid silicon dioxide forms , it results in an ________ .	when liquid silicon dioxide forms , it results in an ________ .
the participants had to rate how grateful they were to strangers who provided them with gifts of food and clothing – all while they had their brain scanned in an fmri machine . researchers found their ratings of gratitude positively correlated with activity in brain areas associated with fairness and value judgements . it makes sense because gratitude is often thought of as a moral emotion .	2. within the human brain , gratitude positively correlated with activity in brain areas associated with	2. within the human brain , gratitude positively correlated with activity in brain areas associated with
it is really beautiful . mercury has an interesting property that it will very easily form alloys which are called amalgams . my teeth and probably many of your teeth are filled with so called silver amalgam which is a mixture of mercury and silver which when it is freshly mixed is like a paste . but when the dentist pushes it into your tooth it then hardens and , all being well , it does not come out or at least does not come out for a number of years .	where in the professor ’ s body can we find an amalgam of mercury and silver ?	where in the professor ’ s body can we find an amalgam of mercury and silver ?
justice will eventually come to the chocolate thief , but in the meantime , our task is to avoid verbal ambiguity by making it clear which parts of the sentences modifiers belong to . that way , we can at least maintain grammatical law and order .	modifiers are always wrong ; there 's no correct way to use them .	modifiers are always wrong ; there 's no correct way to use them .
one theory focuses on a small pit on the embryo called a node . the node is lined with tiny hairs called cilia , while tilt away from the head and whirl around rapidly , all in the same direction . this synchronized rotation pushes fluid from the right side of the embryo to the left .	all climbing plants are twined in the same direction .	all climbing plants are twined in the same direction .
molecules of n2 . and it is interesting , because the bond between the two nitrogen atoms is the strongest bond that you can get between any two atoms in the periodic table . any two atoms that are the same .	what is the order of the bond between the two nitrogen atoms of molecular nitrogen ?	what is the order of the bond between the two nitrogen atoms of molecular nitrogen ?
at this stage , most of the ibuprofen makes it through the liver unscathed . it continues its journey out of the liver , through veins , into the body 's circulatory system . half an hour after you swallow the pill , some of the dose has already made it into the circulatory blood stream .	liver _________ react with drugs to transform them , so that they are easier to expel from the body .	liver _________ react with drugs to transform them , so that they are easier to expel from the body .
clearly , all mountains are not alike . that 's because time comes into the equation , too . when continental plates first collide , uplift happens fast .	describe the steps of mountain formation over time .	describe the steps of mountain formation over time .
i love the idea that different branches of science are called fields of study . most people think of science as a closed , black box , when in fact it is an open field . and we are all explorers .	savage mentions the large hadron collider as an example of modern scientific discovery that ’ s made possible by multi-billion dollar pieces of machinery . how does this dovetail with savage ’ s hope that people will think of science as an open field versus a black box ?	savage mentions the large hadron collider as an example of modern scientific discovery that ’ s made possible by multi-billion dollar pieces of machinery . how does this dovetail with savage ’ s hope that people will think of science as an open field versus a black box ?
figuring out how your brain responds to pain is the key to finding the best treatment for you . that 's true personalized medicine .	how can understanding brain variability help to develop personalized medicine for pain ?	how can understanding brain variability help to develop personalized medicine for pain ?
but creatures like the tardigrade , also known as the water bear , get around this restriction with a process called anhydrobiosis , from the greek meaning life without water . and however extraordinary , tardigrades are n't alone . bacteria , single-celled organisms called archaea , plants , and even other animals can all survive drying up .	how is it thought that tardigrades protect their cellular components when they dry out ?	how is it thought that tardigrades protect their cellular components when they dry out ?
female athletes did n't get a lot of support either and often had to provide their own uniforms and equipment . it was title ix that forced school administrators to make sports more equal . but what does equal mean in sports ?	to what activities does title ix apply ?	to what activities does title ix apply ?
female athletes did n't get a lot of support either and often had to provide their own uniforms and equipment . it was title ix that forced school administrators to make sports more equal . but what does equal mean in sports ?	which of the following situations might indicate that a school is violating title ix ?	which of the following situations might indicate that a school is violating title ix ?
female athletes did n't get a lot of support either and often had to provide their own uniforms and equipment . it was title ix that forced school administrators to make sports more equal . but what does equal mean in sports ?	which government agency is responsible for responding to title ix complaints ?	which government agency is responsible for responding to title ix complaints ?
a few years ago , i got one of those spam emails . and it managed to get through my spam filter . i 'm not quite sure how , but it turned up in my inbox , and it was from a guy called solomon odonkoh .	what does james veitch recommend you do with your spam emails ?	what does james veitch recommend you do with your spam emails ?
a few years ago , i got one of those spam emails . and it managed to get through my spam filter . i 'm not quite sure how , but it turned up in my inbox , and it was from a guy called solomon odonkoh .	what does veitch 's interactions with spam emails tell us about the purpose of spam ?	what does veitch 's interactions with spam emails tell us about the purpose of spam ?
the primary two chromophores are hemoglobin , found in our red blood cells , and melanin , which gives our skin its pigment . we know that uvb rays cause the skin to burn . the role of uva rays is less well understood and appears to have an effect on our tanning response , carcinogenesis , and aging .	uvb rays are primarily responsible for which of the following skin findings ?	uvb rays are primarily responsible for which of the following skin findings ?
therefore , there must be some quality of color vision that transcends its physical description . the knowledge argument is n't just about color vision . mary 's room uses color vision to represent conscious experience . if physical science ca n't entirely explain color vision , then maybe it ca n't entirely explain other conscious experiences either .	how does the thought experiment rely on the reader ’ s experience of color vision to make the case for the knowledge argument ?	how does the thought experiment rely on the reader ’ s experience of color vision to make the case for the knowledge argument ?
the point about cerium is that very small particles of cerium oxide are now becoming quite important in various areas of technology . there ’ s a company , or several companies , that are using nano particles of cerium oxide as an additive for fuels to make a particular diesel fuel to try and make it burn better and give more power when you are driving diesel cars . and here in nottingham we are trying to develop new ways of making these nano particles by reacting cerium with high temperature water and it ’ s been quite successful .	which compound of cerium can be used as a fuel additive to produce more power in cars with diesel engines ?	which compound of cerium can be used as a fuel additive to produce more power in cars with diesel engines ?
guitar shapes and materials can also vary , and both change the nature and sound of the vibrations . playing two or more strings at the same time allows you to create new wave patterns like chords and other sound effects . for example , when you play two notes whose frequencies are close together , they add together to create a sound wave whose amplitude rises and falls , producing a throbbing effect , which guitarists call the beats . and electric guitars give you even more to play with .	on an instrument , when you play more than two notes at the same time you are creating a ( n ) _____ .	on an instrument , when you play more than two notes at the same time you are creating a ( n ) _____ .
because if machines and the people who run them can accurately read our emotional states , they may be able to assist us or manipulate us at unprecedented scales . but before we get there , how can something so complex as emotion be converted into mere numbers , the only language machines understand ? essentially the same way our own brains interpret emotions , by learning how to spot them .	emotion understanding is now easier for machines because of :	emotion understanding is now easier for machines because of :
but the chances of being right or left-handed are determined by the handedness of your parents in surprisingly consistent ratios . if your father was left-handed but your mother was right-handed , you have a 17 % chance of being born left-handed , while two righties will have a left-handed child only 10 % of the time . handedness seems to be determined by a roll of the dice , but the odds are set by your genes .	what are some ways archaeologists can tell if someone was left-handed ?	what are some ways archaeologists can tell if someone was left-handed ?
but the chances of being right or left-handed are determined by the handedness of your parents in surprisingly consistent ratios . if your father was left-handed but your mother was right-handed , you have a 17 % chance of being born left-handed , while two righties will have a left-handed child only 10 % of the time . handedness seems to be determined by a roll of the dice , but the odds are set by your genes .	which pairing of parent handedness gives the best chance of their offspring being left-handed ?	which pairing of parent handedness gives the best chance of their offspring being left-handed ?
but the chances of being right or left-handed are determined by the handedness of your parents in surprisingly consistent ratios . if your father was left-handed but your mother was right-handed , you have a 17 % chance of being born left-handed , while two righties will have a left-handed child only 10 % of the time . handedness seems to be determined by a roll of the dice , but the odds are set by your genes .	`` it is a right-handed world and there are more advantages to being right-handed than left-handed . '' do you agree or disagree with this statement ? explain your answer .	`` it is a right-handed world and there are more advantages to being right-handed than left-handed . '' do you agree or disagree with this statement ? explain your answer .
but the chances of being right or left-handed are determined by the handedness of your parents in surprisingly consistent ratios . if your father was left-handed but your mother was right-handed , you have a 17 % chance of being born left-handed , while two righties will have a left-handed child only 10 % of the time . handedness seems to be determined by a roll of the dice , but the odds are set by your genes .	give examples from a sport 's perspective of how being left-handed can serve as an advantage in competition .	give examples from a sport 's perspective of how being left-handed can serve as an advantage in competition .
institutions like the smithsonian were started so that objects could be seen and studied , not just locked away . american museums , in particular , commissioned experiments and hired explorers to seek out and retrieve natural samples . museums became centers for scholarship and artistic and scientific discovery .	why would american museums in particular have focused on collecting and preserving specimens ?	why would american museums in particular have focused on collecting and preserving specimens ?
water flowing calmly in a river is yin , but when it goes over the waterfall , it 's very yang . toothpicks are yin compared with a telephone pole . the back of a person is more yin than the front . the top of a person is the yang end . taoism teaches that there is a power in the universe .	compared to a person with too much yin energy , a person with too much yang energy would probably	compared to a person with too much yin energy , a person with too much yang energy would probably
so , now we have a flat representation of this molecule , but how would it look in three dimensions ? we can reasonably say that because each of these bonds is a region of negative electric charge and like charges repel each other , the most favorable configuration of atoms would maximize the distance between bonds . and to get all the bonds as far away from each other as possible , the optimal shape is this .	phosphorus pentafluoride ( pf5 ) consists of a central phosphorus atom bonded to five fluorine atoms . you know that ch4 is tetrahedral . what arrangement of the fluorine atoms around phosphorus would maximize the distance between all five p—f bonds ?	phosphorus pentafluoride ( pf5 ) consists of a central phosphorus atom bonded to five fluorine atoms . you know that ch4 is tetrahedral . what arrangement of the fluorine atoms around phosphorus would maximize the distance between all five p—f bonds ?
along with our other great ape cousins , the gorillas , chimps , and bonobos , they belong to our hominidae family tree , which stretches back 14 million years . but it 's not just their striking red hair that makes orangutans unique among our cousins . as the only great apes from asia , orangutans have adapted to a life high in the rain forest canopies .	when contrasted with our other ape cousins , what is a unique feature of orangutans ?	when contrasted with our other ape cousins , what is a unique feature of orangutans ?
in 2010 , $ 30 billion worth of fruits and vegetables were wasted by american retailers and shoppers in part because of cosmetic problems and perceived spoilage . that 's a poor use of about 30 % of the produce on the market , not to mention the water and energy required to grow and transport it , and the landfill space getting used up by rotting fruit .	what value of produce was wasted in america in 2010 ?	what value of produce was wasted in america in 2010 ?
and there 's one more thing you need to keep in mind before trying to uncook all of your food . boiling an egg is actually an unusual cooking process because even though it changes the way proteins are shaped and bound together , it does n't actually change their chemical identity . most types of cooking are more like the famous maillard reaction , which makes chemical changes that turn sugars and proteins into delicious caramel crunchiness and are a lot harder to undo . so you might be able to unboil your egg , but i 'm sorry to say you ca n't unfry it ... yet .	what makes boiling special , compared to other cooking processes like grilling or frying ?	what makes boiling special , compared to other cooking processes like grilling or frying ?
that difference in velocity creates sheer stresses that repeatedly stretch and contract the proteins until eventually they snap back into their native shapes and stay there . by the time the centrifuge stops spinning , the egg white is back in its original unboiled state . this technique works with all sorts of proteins .	given what you know about the structure of the proteins in raw vs. boiled egg white , explain why raw egg white is runny while boiled egg white is solid and bouncy .	given what you know about the structure of the proteins in raw vs. boiled egg white , explain why raw egg white is runny while boiled egg white is solid and bouncy .
youtube audiences , that view count that you see at the bottom of every video , and get some perspective on it . we 'll being with dunbar 's number . it 's an estimation of the maximum number of people we can have stable , social relationships with at a given moment and it 's based on the size of our neo-cortex .	what does dunbar 's number ( 100-230 ) attempt to represent ?	what does dunbar 's number ( 100-230 ) attempt to represent ?
laws usually resist change since they would n't have been adopted if they did n't fit the data , though we occasionally revise laws in the face of new unexpected information . a theory 's acceptance , however , is often gladiatorial . multiple theories may compete to supply the best explanation of a new scientific discovery .	one can best compare the acceptance of a theory to :	one can best compare the acceptance of a theory to :
even if we break free from earth 's orbit and embark on long-duration journeys among the stars , can we adapt to the extreme environments of space ? this wo n't be the first time that humans have adapted to harsh environments and evolved superhuman capabilities . not fantastical powers like laser vision or invisibility , but physiological adaptations for survival in tough conditions .	some human populations are known to have evolved some pretty remarkable traits . what are some examples of harsh environments that led to the development of these traits ?	some human populations are known to have evolved some pretty remarkable traits . what are some examples of harsh environments that led to the development of these traits ?
the mary 's room thought experiment describes what philosophers call the knowledge argument , that there are non-physical properties and knowledge which can only be discovered through conscious experience . the knowledge argument contradicts the theory of physicalism , which says that everything , including mental states , has a physical explanation . to most people hearing mary 's story , it seems intuitively obvious that actually seeing color will be totally different than learning about it .	which philosophical theory states that everything , including mental states , has a physical explanation ?	which philosophical theory states that everything , including mental states , has a physical explanation ?
in the 1840s , they started sedating patients with ether during dental extractions and surgeries . nitrous oxide became popular in the decades that followed and is still used today . although ether derivatives , like sevoflurane , are more common .	the following is not a method of taking anesthesia used today :	the following is not a method of taking anesthesia used today :
no matter the form them come in , cartoons elicit all kinds of emotions from the viewer - happiness , sadness , anger , hilarity , calm - and can transmit ideas in an instant . cartoons are a universal medium enjoyed and understood around the world and across borders . this is why they have survived so long as an art form .	cartoons are relevant to cultures all over the world and relate to a variety to topics . explain a time when you read or saw a cartoon that affected you and changed the way you viewed the world around you ( if you need some inspiration , check out the dig deeper section ) .	cartoons are relevant to cultures all over the world and relate to a variety to topics . explain a time when you read or saw a cartoon that affected you and changed the way you viewed the world around you ( if you need some inspiration , check out the dig deeper section ) .
no matter the form them come in , cartoons elicit all kinds of emotions from the viewer - happiness , sadness , anger , hilarity , calm - and can transmit ideas in an instant . cartoons are a universal medium enjoyed and understood around the world and across borders . this is why they have survived so long as an art form .	do you think cartoons are an effective medium for change ? how are they impacting the world ?	do you think cartoons are an effective medium for change ? how are they impacting the world ?
`` this is rubbish . serfdom had already been abolished in 1861 . '' `` and replaced by something worse .	when was serfdom abolished in russia ?	when was serfdom abolished in russia ?
this is similar to our own brains , which learn from previous experiences to shape how new stimuli are processed . recognition algorithms are n't just limited to facial expressions . our emotions manifest in many ways .	emotion recognition algorithms have been around since the 1990s ; why did it take them so long to become mainstream ?	emotion recognition algorithms have been around since the 1990s ; why did it take them so long to become mainstream ?
click next and continue on to the next page . award years run from july 1st to june 30th , not january 1st to december 31st , so just make sure to pick the correct award year for your attendance , for example ... if you filling out the fafsa in february you 're not going to attend school until september , just make sure to select the correct award year that september falls within . you 'll then be asked to choose a password .	the award years run from _____ to _____ .	the award years run from _____ to _____ .
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar every cell in your body is separated from those around it by its outermost layer , its membrane . a cell membrane must be both sturdy and flexible .	every cell in your body is separated from the cells around it by its outer most layer called the :	every cell in your body is separated from the cells around it by its outer most layer called the :
there are several different stories about how gyotaku came about , but it basically started with fishermen needing a way to record the species and size of the fish they caught over 100 years ago . fishermen took paper , ink , and brushes out to sea with them . they told stories of great adventures at sea .	what kind of ink and paper were used ?	what kind of ink and paper were used ?
the sixth side , made of a thinner sheet of wood , would be used as the striking surface , or more commonly known as the tapa . a sound hole was also cut into the back to allow the sound to escape . as an afro-peruvian culture developed , and new forms of music and dance , such as zamacueca , festejo and landó were born , the cajon became a dedicated musical instrument in its own right .	what modifications would you make to the cajon to change or add to its sound ?	what modifications would you make to the cajon to change or add to its sound ?
bright screens at night can confuse these signals , which is why binging on tv before bed makes it harder to sleep . but sometimes we need to be even more precise when telling the time , which is where the brain 's internal stopwatch chimes in . one theory for how this works involves the fact that communication between a given pair of neurons always takes roughly the same amount of time .	where is the stopwatch in our brain believed to reside ?	where is the stopwatch in our brain believed to reside ?
and utah 's pando-quaking aspen grove has a single root system that dates back more than 80 millennia . trees have also held a sacred place in many cultures throughout history . the celtic peoples who first inhabited the british isles believed that trees housed deities .	trees have held a sacred place in many cultures throughout history . what are some ways that you see trees playing important cultural roles today ? do these cultural practices still carry associations of steadfastness or truth ?	trees have held a sacred place in many cultures throughout history . what are some ways that you see trees playing important cultural roles today ? do these cultural practices still carry associations of steadfastness or truth ?
this paradox relates to his work 's roots in the surrealist automatic drawings of andré masson and others . these surrealists supposedly drew directly from the unconscious to reveal truths hidden within their minds . occasionally , instead of picturing something and then drawing it , they let their hands move automatically and would later tease out familiar figures that appeared in the scribbles .	the surrealists :	the surrealists :
- so the other group of ants [ dr. corrie moreau , curator/ants ] that we have today are bullet ants . [ dr. corrie moreau , curator/ants ] - why are they called bullet ants ? [ bullet ant , paraponera clavata ] - well , they 're called bullet ants [ bullet ant , paraponera clavata ] because their sting is so painful [ * causing excruciating pain , numbness & amp ; amp ; trembling ] it feels like you were shot by a gun .	briefly describe how dr. corrie moreau extracts venom from the bullet ants .	briefly describe how dr. corrie moreau extracts venom from the bullet ants .
scientists aren ’ t sure why , but they do have some guesses . there ’ s bergmann ’ s rule , for example , which suggests that temperature may influence gigantism . this might be because larger animals have less surface area relative to volume , so they radiate less heat based on their mass and stay warmer in colder climates .	briefly describe bergmann ’ s rule and klieber ’ s law .	briefly describe bergmann ’ s rule and klieber ’ s law .
leading federalists recognized the need to compromise and promised to give them due regard . once ratification by nine states finally brought the constitution into legal force , they made good on their promise . during a meeting of the first united states congress , representative james madison stood on the house floor to propose the very amendments he had previously believed to be unnecessary .	those opposed to ratification of the constitution were called :	those opposed to ratification of the constitution were called :
one of the most important of these worlds is our red and dusty neighbor , mars . today , astrobiologists are exploring places where life might once have existed on mars using nasa 's curiosity rover . one of these is gale crater , an impact crater created when a meteor hit the surface of mars nearly 3.8 billions years ago .	on which planet or moon is nasa ’ s curiosity rover currently roving ?	on which planet or moon is nasa ’ s curiosity rover currently roving ?
i 'm 14 years old . and when i was 13 , i convinced one of the largest toy companies , toy makers in the world , hasbro , to change the way that they marketed one of their best-selling products . so , allow me to tell you about it .	what is a problem in the world today that you feel should be changed , and why ?	what is a problem in the world today that you feel should be changed , and why ?
photons are produced by the nuclear reactions deep in the core of our sun . as the photons flow out of the core , they interact with matter and lose energy , becoming longer wavelength forms of light . they start out as gamma rays in the core , but end up as x-rays , ultraviolet or visible light as they near the surface .	photons flow out of the core , interact with matter , lose energy and become longer forms of wavelength forms of light changing from gamma rays in the core to other forms of light . which type of waves can they become after that ?	photons flow out of the core , interact with matter , lose energy and become longer forms of wavelength forms of light changing from gamma rays in the core to other forms of light . which type of waves can they become after that ?
it was rather as if you had gum on the bottom of your shoe and stepped on a leaf , dragged that leaf along for the rest of your life , were buried wearing that shoe and went to heaven in it to spend eternity wedded to that stray , worn-out leaf . ekename picked up an n and never let it go . the same thing happened with other words .	words picked up an extra n from :	words picked up an extra n from :
robert hooke pursued microscopy , and 1665 he published his findings of worlds inside worlds , which he called `` cells '' in the book `` micrographia . '' at the other end of the spectrum , galileo innovated with telescopic lenses , and in 1609 , he had refined a telescope until he had an instrument powerful enough to see distant objects in the sky with an accuracy no one had before him . he found that the moon had craters and mountains , that jupiter had moons of its own , and the whole system governing the earth and space was brought into question .	what year did galileo innovate telescopic lenses which led to an instrument powerful enough to see jupiter 's moons ?	what year did galileo innovate telescopic lenses which led to an instrument powerful enough to see jupiter 's moons ?
and here 's an example of one of the first drawings . so this is what i call a `` do n't eat me '' wetsuit . so this takes that banding idea , takes that banding idea , it 's highly visible , provides a highly disruptive profile , and is intended to prevent the shark from considering that you would be ordinary food , and potentially even create confusion for the shark .	what 2 things did the team do to create a wetsuit that would n't confuse a person with prey ?	what 2 things did the team do to create a wetsuit that would n't confuse a person with prey ?
classical conditioning in action . operant conditioning explains how consequences lead to changes in voluntary behavior . so how does operant conditioning work ? there are two main components in operant conditioning : reinforcement and punishment . reinforcers make it more likely that you 'll do something again , while punishers make it less likely .	what 's another word for operant in the phrase operant conditioning ?	what 's another word for operant in the phrase operant conditioning ?
so , juneau , alaska would get about 19 hours of daylight on the same summer day that tallahassee , florida gets about 14 . in fact , in the summertime at the north pole , the sun never sets . ok , then , it 's all about daylight hours , i 've got it !	the poles of the planet experience many months in a row when the sun never sets . why are the north and south poles still relatively cold during these times ?	the poles of the planet experience many months in a row when the sun never sets . why are the north and south poles still relatively cold during these times ?
but we do know that exposure to other topical oils , like some cosmetics or moisturizers , can cause acne by blocking your pores with extra oils and trapping sebum . it ’ s easy to avoid the problem , though — just look for products that say they ’ re non-comedogenic , which means that they shouldn ’ t clog your pores . but the natural oil on your face isn ’ t really a problem .	skin products that are 'non-comedogenic ' claim to not do what ?	skin products that are 'non-comedogenic ' claim to not do what ?
now we can explain our color blind twin . both sisters inherited one mutant copy of the green receptor gene and one normally functioning copy . the embryo split into twins before x inactivation , so each twin ended up with a different inactivation pattern .	what is one cause of colorblindness ?	what is one cause of colorblindness ?
this process , known as neurogenesis , involves dedicated brain cells , called neural stem cells and progenitor cells , which manufacture new neurons or replace the old ones . the three regions where neurogenesis has been discovered are the dentate gyrus , associated with learning and memory , the subventricular zone , which may supply neurons to the olfactory bulb for communication between the nose and brain , and the striatum , which helps manage movement . scientists do n't yet have a good grasp on exactly what role neurogenesis plays in any of these regions , or why they have this ability that 's absent from the rest of the brain , but the mere presence of a mechanism to grown new neurons in the adult brain opens up an amazing possibility . could we harness that mechanism to get the brain to heal its scars similar to how new skin grows to patch up a wound , or a broken bone stitches itself back together ?	which brain region plays a role in learning the memory ?	which brain region plays a role in learning the memory ?
if a new gene is added through mutation , it can affect the frequency . imagine a gene mutation creates a new color of hair . this would obviously change the frequency in the gene pool .	imagine a gene mutation creates a new color of hair . according to andersen , what will this do ?	imagine a gene mutation creates a new color of hair . according to andersen , what will this do ?
`` and why not ? cleopatra was a fascinating woman . she commanded armies at 21 , spoke several languages , and was educated in a city with the world 's finest library and some of the greatest scholars of the time . ''	what was cleopatra ’ s cultural background ?	what was cleopatra ’ s cultural background ?
`` and why not ? cleopatra was a fascinating woman . she commanded armies at 21 , spoke several languages , and was educated in a city with the world 's finest library and some of the greatest scholars of the time . ''	which of these was not one of cleopatra ’ s accomplishments ?	which of these was not one of cleopatra ’ s accomplishments ?
`` and why not ? cleopatra was a fascinating woman . she commanded armies at 21 , spoke several languages , and was educated in a city with the world 's finest library and some of the greatest scholars of the time . ''	how did ptolemy ’ s execution of pompey inadvertently help cleopatra come to power ?	how did ptolemy ’ s execution of pompey inadvertently help cleopatra come to power ?
dilation , multiplication , exactly . if you 're going to make something twice as big , you need to mulitply the x and the y coordinates all by two . so , this shows us that the mathematics of scaling is mulitiplication .	p has coordinates ( 3,3 ) and is translated by 5 units in the x direction . what are the coordinates of p after translation ?	p has coordinates ( 3,3 ) and is translated by 5 units in the x direction . what are the coordinates of p after translation ?
every second , about 50 muons from cosmic rays , 10 million neutrinos coming directly from the big bang , 30 million photons from the cosmic microwave background , and 300 trillion neutrinos from the sun pass through your body . it is possible to shield vacuum chambers with substances , including water , that absorb and reflect this radiation , except for neutrinos . let 's say you 've somehow removed all of the atoms and blocked all of the radiation . is the space now totally empty ?	after removing all the atoms and blocking all the radiation , what will remain in the space ?	after removing all the atoms and blocking all the radiation , what will remain in the space ?
however , performatives depend on context and reception . these are known as felicity conditions . imagine if the mayor showed up to the wedding and said , `` by the power vested in me as mayor of the city , i name this gazebo 'the mayor 's pizza palace . ' ''	which felicity conditions best describe a successful performative ?	which felicity conditions best describe a successful performative ?
there 's even another powerful clue in that unlike most fish , coelacanths do n't lay eggs , instead giving birth to live , young pups , just like mammals . and this prehistoric fish will continue to provide us with fascinating information about the migration of vertebrates out of the ocean over 300 million years ago . a journey that ultimately drove our own evolution , survival and existence .	briefly explain the link between the coelacanth and the migration of vertebrates out of the ocean nearly 300 million years ago .	briefly explain the link between the coelacanth and the migration of vertebrates out of the ocean nearly 300 million years ago .
but some will use smell and other sensory cues to navigate back to the reefs where they were born , even if they remain in the larval stage for months . so , what happens when larvae do find a suitable coral reef ? do they risk it all in one jump from the water column , hoping to land in exactly the right spot to settle down and metamorphose into adults ?	today , over half of the world ’ s reefs are threatened by human activities . how do you think the complex early life of coral reef fish might complicate reef conservation ?	today , over half of the world ’ s reefs are threatened by human activities . how do you think the complex early life of coral reef fish might complicate reef conservation ?
but some will use smell and other sensory cues to navigate back to the reefs where they were born , even if they remain in the larval stage for months . so , what happens when larvae do find a suitable coral reef ? do they risk it all in one jump from the water column , hoping to land in exactly the right spot to settle down and metamorphose into adults ?	which of the following are challenges to larval coral reef fish ?	which of the following are challenges to larval coral reef fish ?
it ’ s got quite a few military applications , usually involving the word ‘ nuclear ’ . but what most people don ’ t realise is it ’ s actually used in various types of machines for detecting metal fatigue and stress in airplanes , so obviously it ’ s pretty important our planes don ’ t fall to bits in mid-air and they are used in the kind of instruments which scan for this and can spot any problems long before they become a serious issue . it ’ s also probably the only other actinide which has possibly routinely got its way into households which is that it ’ s also used in metal detectors .	how is californium used in airplanes ?	how is californium used in airplanes ?
`` actually , it was the roman factions who came demanding her aid . and of course she had no choice but to support octavian and marc antony in avenging caesar , if only for the sake of their son . '' `` and again , she provided her particular kind of support to marc antony . '' `` why does that matter ?	what was octavian ’ s justification for attacking marc antony ?	what was octavian ’ s justification for attacking marc antony ?
and it does n't just end in fifth grade . an hp report found that men will apply for a job if they meet only 60 percent of the qualifications , but women , women will apply only if they meet 100 percent of the qualifications . 100 percent .	men will apply for a job if they meet __ % of the qualifications , whereas women will apply for a job if they meet __ % of the qualifications .	men will apply for a job if they meet __ % of the qualifications , whereas women will apply for a job if they meet __ % of the qualifications .
but sex hormones are just one kind of hormone that you have coursing through your body right now . in fact , there are at least 50 different types of these chemical messengers at work in your body at this very minute , but only a very few of them have anything at all to do with sex . the truth is , from birth to death , just about every cell and function in your body is under your hormones ’ constant influence .	how many types of chemical messengers are at work in your body at this very minute ?	how many types of chemical messengers are at work in your body at this very minute ?
the diameter of the earth is approximately 10 to the power of seven meters . the ability to use the power of 10 as an estimation tool can come in handy every now and again , like when you 're trying to guess the number of m & amp ; amp ; m 's in a jar , but is also an essential skill in math and science , especially when dealing with what are known as fermi problems . fermi problems are named after the physicist enrico fermi , who 's famous for making rapid order-of-magnitude estimations , or rapid estimations , with seemingly little available data .	name an important decision you have to make at some point in your life where fermi 's method of estimation may come in handy . what about decisions the president of the united states may have to make ? what about nasa ?	name an important decision you have to make at some point in your life where fermi 's method of estimation may come in handy . what about decisions the president of the united states may have to make ? what about nasa ?
the dna in our cells is packaged within chromosomes , each of which has two protective regions at the extremities called telomeres . those shorten every time cells replicate . when telomeres become too short , cells stop replicating and die , slowing the body 's ability to renew itself . with age , cells increasingly grow senescent , too , a process that halts the cell cycle in times of risk , like when cancer cells are proliferating . but the response also kicks in more as we age , halting cell growth and cutting short their ability to replicate .	tumor cells can be considered “ immortal ” in comparison with normal cells . how can a cell become immortal ?	tumor cells can be considered “ immortal ” in comparison with normal cells . how can a cell become immortal ?
these pollutants can be carcinogenic , harm the health of field workers , and damage surrounding ecosystems . some t-shirts are made of organic cotton grown without pesticides and insecticides , but organic cotton makes up less than 1 % of the 22.7 million metric tons of cotton produced worldwide . once the cotton bales leave the farm , textile mills ship them to a spinning facility , usually in china or india , where high-tech machines blend , card , comb , pull , stretch , and , finally , twist the cotton into snowy ropes of yarn called slivers .	where in the world is cotton commonly grown ?	where in the world is cotton commonly grown ?
these pollutants can be carcinogenic , harm the health of field workers , and damage surrounding ecosystems . some t-shirts are made of organic cotton grown without pesticides and insecticides , but organic cotton makes up less than 1 % of the 22.7 million metric tons of cotton produced worldwide . once the cotton bales leave the farm , textile mills ship them to a spinning facility , usually in china or india , where high-tech machines blend , card , comb , pull , stretch , and , finally , twist the cotton into snowy ropes of yarn called slivers .	of the 22.7 million metric tons of cotton produced , ____ is grown organically .	of the 22.7 million metric tons of cotton produced , ____ is grown organically .
this is a pot , i ’ m not sure what it is from , i got it from an old lab that was being closed down so it was probably made for holding a strong acid because lead is very unreactive . you can see rather nicely here the white colour of lead oxide because it has oxidised over the years and this is the white material that was used for paints . this white lead paint that people use , the oxide of lead , had one rather unfortunate consequence that it reacts with sulphur in the air and in victorian times when people burnt coal they produced a lot of sulphur , and the sulphur reacted with the lead to give a black colour which made the white paint eventually turn grey and if you waited long enough black . and this effect was exploited by one of my former colleagues here professor leslie crombie , who during the war was working for the british admiralty in their research labs on the camouflaging of submarines .	what is the white compound on the inside of the cover of the lead pot , shown by the professor ?	what is the white compound on the inside of the cover of the lead pot , shown by the professor ?
so we divide the work done by the time and find the answer of about 0.00035 joules per second , or about 0.35 milliwatts . that 's a tiny amount of power . this clock uses so little power that you could run almost 300,000 clocks using the same power it takes to run one 100-watt light bulb . that 's right , you could run a clock in every house in a medium sized city with that much power .	it takes 2 hours to charge a cell phone . if the battery is drained during two days of use , compare the power required to charge the phone to the average power the phone uses during the two days .	it takes 2 hours to charge a cell phone . if the battery is drained during two days of use , compare the power required to charge the phone to the average power the phone uses during the two days .
so we divide the work done by the time and find the answer of about 0.00035 joules per second , or about 0.35 milliwatts . that 's a tiny amount of power . this clock uses so little power that you could run almost 300,000 clocks using the same power it takes to run one 100-watt light bulb . that 's right , you could run a clock in every house in a medium sized city with that much power .	how many grandfather clocks could you run using the same amount of power it takes to light a standard lightbulb ?	how many grandfather clocks could you run using the same amount of power it takes to light a standard lightbulb ?
and we were rather pleased about that , frankly -- ( laughter ) because she was the main reason we were leaving the country . ( laughter ) but something strikes you when you move to america and travel around the world : every education system on earth has the same hierarchy of subjects . every one .	what is the hierarchy of subjects that sir ken observed in schools around the world ?	what is the hierarchy of subjects that sir ken observed in schools around the world ?
when psychologists and educators test for learning styles , they ’ re trying to figure out whether these are inherent traits that affect how well students learn , instead of just a preference . usually , they start by giving a survey to figure out what style a student favors , like visual or verbal learning . then , they try to teach the students something with a specific presentation style , like using visual aids , and do a follow-up test to see how much they learned .	according to the studies mentioned in the video , what learning aid ( verbal , auditory , visual , etc . ) generally has the biggest influence on students ' ability to retain information ?	according to the studies mentioned in the video , what learning aid ( verbal , auditory , visual , etc . ) generally has the biggest influence on students ' ability to retain information ?
when psychologists and educators test for learning styles , they ’ re trying to figure out whether these are inherent traits that affect how well students learn , instead of just a preference . usually , they start by giving a survey to figure out what style a student favors , like visual or verbal learning . then , they try to teach the students something with a specific presentation style , like using visual aids , and do a follow-up test to see how much they learned .	what makes any learning aid ( verbal , auditory , visual , etc . ) most effective ?	what makes any learning aid ( verbal , auditory , visual , etc . ) most effective ?
one of these methods is chromatography , a tool forensic scientists use to examine crime scenes . they dissolve gathered evidence in a gas , and can monitor and analyze the ingredients as they separate and move at varying speeds due to their unique chemical properties . that information then tells scientists precisely what was present at the scene , often helping to identify the culprit .	how do we separate petroleum to its ingredients ?	how do we separate petroleum to its ingredients ?
when you cut the metal you get this very nice , shiny , fresh surface coloured just like copper . this is a ball of copper , copper metal . as you might imagine itís a ball of metal so therefore it is quite dense and heavy .	the statue of liberty in new york is the largest copper statue in the world . if it is made of copper , why does it look blue-green in color ?	the statue of liberty in new york is the largest copper statue in the world . if it is made of copper , why does it look blue-green in color ?
when you cut the metal you get this very nice , shiny , fresh surface coloured just like copper . this is a ball of copper , copper metal . as you might imagine itís a ball of metal so therefore it is quite dense and heavy .	what is the color of copper sulfate and many copper compounds ?	what is the color of copper sulfate and many copper compounds ?
half the calories a brain burns go towards simply keeping the structure intact by pumping sodium and potassium ions across membranes to maintain an electrical charge . to do this , the brain has to be an energy hog . it consumes an astounding 3.4 x 10^21 atp molecules per minute , atp being the coal of the body 's furnace .	to what is most the brain ’ s energy devoted ?	to what is most the brain ’ s energy devoted ?
stephen paget , an english surgeon , came up with the seed and soil theory of metastasis . the seed and soil theory stated that cancer cells die easily in the wrong microenvironment , hence they only metastasize to a location with similar characteristics . however , james ewing , the first professor of pathology at cornell university , challenged the seed and soil theory , and proposed that the site of metastasis was determined by the location of the vascular and lymphatic channels which drain the primary tumor .	which of the following is not a route where cancer cells can metastasize ?	which of the following is not a route where cancer cells can metastasize ?
we may never be able to determine how language came about , or whether all human languages did in fact have a common ancestor scattered through the babel of migration . but the next time you hear a foreign language , pay attention . it may not be as foreign as you think .	what is a proto-language ?	what is a proto-language ?
we may never be able to determine how language came about , or whether all human languages did in fact have a common ancestor scattered through the babel of migration . but the next time you hear a foreign language , pay attention . it may not be as foreign as you think .	what is the difference between a language and a dialect ?	what is the difference between a language and a dialect ?
`` king ? '' macbeth wonders . just what would he have to do to gain the crown ?	`` macbeth '' becomes ambitious after hearing a prophecy from :	`` macbeth '' becomes ambitious after hearing a prophecy from :
`` king ? '' macbeth wonders . just what would he have to do to gain the crown ?	lady macbeth sees a bloodstain on her hands because she :	lady macbeth sees a bloodstain on her hands because she :
`` king ? '' macbeth wonders . just what would he have to do to gain the crown ?	shakespeare took borrowed the story of `` macbeth '' from :	shakespeare took borrowed the story of `` macbeth '' from :
`` king ? '' macbeth wonders . just what would he have to do to gain the crown ?	what are some ways director throughout history have adapted `` macbeth '' ?	what are some ways director throughout history have adapted `` macbeth '' ?
`` king ? '' macbeth wonders . just what would he have to do to gain the crown ?	what phrases from `` macbeth '' are still commonly used in english today ?	what phrases from `` macbeth '' are still commonly used in english today ?
henry tudor was a direct descendant of the first duke of lancaster , raised in exile after his father 's death in a previous rebellion . with richard iii 's power grab causing a split in the york faction , henry won support for his royal claim . raising an army in france , he crossed the channel in 1485 and quickly defeated richard 's forces .	why was richard of york named lord protector ?	why was richard of york named lord protector ?
they ambled through the forests and savannas using their strong arms and sharp claws to uproot plants and climb trees , grazing on grasses , leaves , and prehistoric avocados . in fact , we might not have avocados today if not for the giant sloths . smaller animals could n't swallow the avocado 's huge seed , but the sloths could , and they spread avocado trees far and wide .	how did giant ground sloths influence the survival and spread of avocados ?	how did giant ground sloths influence the survival and spread of avocados ?
so the sense of touch is actually pretty interesting . it has two main components . the first is tactile sensations , things you feel in your skin .	what are the two main components of the sense of touch ?	what are the two main components of the sense of touch ?
in the decades after world war ii , writers wondered what new technologies like atomic energy , artificial intelligence , and space travel meant for humanity 's future . contrasting with popular visions of shining progress , dystopian science fiction expanded to films , comics , and games . robots turned against their creators while tv screens broadcast deadly mass entertainment .	which of these events was not a major influence on dystopian fiction ?	which of these events was not a major influence on dystopian fiction ?
in the decades after world war ii , writers wondered what new technologies like atomic energy , artificial intelligence , and space travel meant for humanity 's future . contrasting with popular visions of shining progress , dystopian science fiction expanded to films , comics , and games . robots turned against their creators while tv screens broadcast deadly mass entertainment .	what was a major difference between dystopian fiction of the 19th century and the 20th ?	what was a major difference between dystopian fiction of the 19th century and the 20th ?
in the decades after world war ii , writers wondered what new technologies like atomic energy , artificial intelligence , and space travel meant for humanity 's future . contrasting with popular visions of shining progress , dystopian science fiction expanded to films , comics , and games . robots turned against their creators while tv screens broadcast deadly mass entertainment .	what is the relationship between science fiction and dystopia ?	what is the relationship between science fiction and dystopia ?
and any positive integer , up to a certain limit , can be expressed as a sum of these numbers . for example , the number seven is 4+2+1 . so we can represent it by having just these three fingers raised .	the doubling numbers ( that is , the powers of two ) begin 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 ... do any of these numbers ever begin with a seven ?	the doubling numbers ( that is , the powers of two ) begin 1 , 2 , 4 , 8 , 16 , 32 ... do any of these numbers ever begin with a seven ?
and any positive integer , up to a certain limit , can be expressed as a sum of these numbers . for example , the number seven is 4+2+1 . so we can represent it by having just these three fingers raised .	in our place-value system , each of the numbers 10 , 100 , 1000 , 10000 , … . uses the same two symbols , yet the sizes of the numbers represented grow ten-fold in value . in 1938 , milton sirotta , nephew of american mathematician edward kasner , coined the term “ googol ” for the number 1 followed by one hundred zeros , and the term “ googolplex ” for the number 1 followed by a googol zeros . is the estimated number of atoms in the observable universe smaller or larger than a googolplex ?	in our place-value system , each of the numbers 10 , 100 , 1000 , 10000 , … . uses the same two symbols , yet the sizes of the numbers represented grow ten-fold in value . in 1938 , milton sirotta , nephew of american mathematician edward kasner , coined the term “ googol ” for the number 1 followed by one hundred zeros , and the term “ googolplex ” for the number 1 followed by a googol zeros . is the estimated number of atoms in the observable universe smaller or larger than a googolplex ?
unfortunately , it 's also what makes elephants one of the few non-human animals to suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder . the cerebral cortex , on the other hand , enables problem solving , which elephants display in many creative ways . they also tackle problems cooperatively , sometimes even outwitting the researchers and manipulating their partners .	what are some ways that elephants ' excellent memory helps their survival ?	what are some ways that elephants ' excellent memory helps their survival ?
what if you want to go into computer science and need to understand base 2 ? so what is log base 2 of 64 ? in other words , 2 raised to what power is 64 ?	what is another way of asking , `` what is log base two of sixty four ? ''	what is another way of asking , `` what is log base two of sixty four ? ''
if they balance , the third coin is fake . otherwise , look at their marks . if they are plus coins , the heavier one is the imposter . if they are marked with minus , it 's the lighter one .	if you know that among four otherwise identical coins one is heavier than the others , what is the minimum number of weighs you would need to uncover the single counterfeit coin ?	if you know that among four otherwise identical coins one is heavier than the others , what is the minimum number of weighs you would need to uncover the single counterfeit coin ?
lie after lie , repeating this verbal gray , this sloshy mush , this fuzzy picture that reflects no real truth . replace them with grittier , exact terms that have been buried in our lexis , waiting to see daylight . no longer does the weather look good or bad , the weather looks ominous or exhilarating .	where have all the grittier , exact terms been ?	where have all the grittier , exact terms been ?
biologically , female pelvises are wider , allowing women to give birth , where as males are narrower . bones also betray the signs of ancient disease . disorders like anemia leave their traces on the bones .	the study of human ancient bones reveals information about individual identity , disease , and some major historical events . how does the anthropologist know all this information ?	the study of human ancient bones reveals information about individual identity , disease , and some major historical events . how does the anthropologist know all this information ?
biologically , female pelvises are wider , allowing women to give birth , where as males are narrower . bones also betray the signs of ancient disease . disorders like anemia leave their traces on the bones .	cribra crani , which affects the cranial vault and causes the outer surface of spongy bone to become thinner and more porous , is a result of which disease ?	cribra crani , which affects the cranial vault and causes the outer surface of spongy bone to become thinner and more porous , is a result of which disease ?
but about 10,000 years ago , our ancestors began to learn the secrets of selective breeding and early agricultural techniques . for the first time , people could raise food rather than search for it , and this led to the development of semi-permanent villages for the first time in history . `` why only semi-permanent ? '' you might ask .	what led to the development of the first semi-permanent settlements ?	what led to the development of the first semi-permanent settlements ?
the ninth and tenth amendments are called the non-rights amendments . they say that the rights not listed in the bill of rights are retained by the people in the states . we have other rights that are not listed in the constitution , and the states have the right to make their own policies , like instituting state taxes .	what is another name for the bill of rights ?	what is another name for the bill of rights ?
the ninth and tenth amendments are called the non-rights amendments . they say that the rights not listed in the bill of rights are retained by the people in the states . we have other rights that are not listed in the constitution , and the states have the right to make their own policies , like instituting state taxes .	when were the bill of rights written ?	when were the bill of rights written ?
turn on a light , and it 's there . concentration gradients govern the flow of electricity , allowing electrons squashed together in one space to travel to an area of lower concentration when a channel is opened , which you do by flipping a switch . right now , in fact , there 's some gradient action going on inside you as you breath air into your lungs letting the concentrated oxygen in that air move passively out of your lungs and into your blood stream .	if concentration gradients help explain the movement of electrons in electricity . how is the word voltage related to concentration gradients ?	if concentration gradients help explain the movement of electrons in electricity . how is the word voltage related to concentration gradients ?
not so fast , mr. jefferson ! these words from the declaration of independence , and the facts behind them , are well known . in june of 1776 , a little more than a year after the war against england began with the shots fired at lexington and concord , the continental congress was meeting in philadelphia to discuss american independence . after long debates , a resolution of independence was approved on july 2 , 1776 . america was free !	where and when was the declaration of independence adopted by the continental congress ?	where and when was the declaration of independence adopted by the continental congress ?
iodine also occurs quite widely in nature and is absolutely essential to life . if you donít have iodine , your thyroid gland , which is a small gland that controls development of all sorts of things in your body , doesnít operate properly . nowadays , iodide is added to table salt in countries like the uk and most other developed countries so nearly everybody has enough iodine .	which gland in your body needs iodine to function properly ?	which gland in your body needs iodine to function properly ?
finally , the lake 's southern and western edges are bordered by two massive mountain ranges , and as cool winds surge down these slopes , they force up warm air , destabilizing the atmosphere and causing storm clouds to form . together , these ingredients combine to give rise to the most awe-inspiring thunderstorms on the planet , a true sight to behold . centuries ago , sir francis drake may have cursed the lake 's intense illumination , but today , sailors actually embrace this phenomenon .	climate scientists predict that average temperatures across the planet are very likely to increase in the next 100 years . what do think this will mean for the frequency and intensity of thunderstorms ?	climate scientists predict that average temperatures across the planet are very likely to increase in the next 100 years . what do think this will mean for the frequency and intensity of thunderstorms ?
it 's like searching for a needle in trillions of haystacks . we might want to focus our search on planets that we know can support life as we know it -- what we call habitable worlds . what do such planets look like ?	what do we call planets that can support life as we know it ?	what do we call planets that can support life as we know it ?
fact is , we still don ’ t know exactly what the ocean floor looks like in most places . the national oceanic and atmospheric administration says that 95 % of the ocean 's bottom remains unseen by humans . as a result , we have a way better picture of the surfaces of other planets than we do of most of the seafloor .	what percent of the ocean ’ s bottom remains unseen by humans ?	what percent of the ocean ’ s bottom remains unseen by humans ?
magellan 's legacy lingers . he had galaxies and space programs named after him . elcano , too , was celebrated in spain with a coat of arms and his face on currency and stamps .	the age of discoveries , in the late 15th century and early 16th century is often compared to the space race of the 1960s ? what analogies can be drawn from these two historical periods and their contribution to humankind ?	the age of discoveries , in the late 15th century and early 16th century is often compared to the space race of the 1960s ? what analogies can be drawn from these two historical periods and their contribution to humankind ?
one of the liver 's main functions is to filter the body 's blood , which it receives in regular shipments from two sources : the hepatic artery delivers blood from the heart , while the hepatic portal vein brings it from the intestine . this double delivery fills the liver with nutrients , that it then sorts , processes and stores with the help of thousands of tiny internal processing plants , known as lobules . both blood flows also deliver the oxygen that the liver needs to function .	inside the liver , the ______ help the organ to process and store nutrients	inside the liver , the ______ help the organ to process and store nutrients
she usually talked to visitors from the other side of a closed door , and did n't even leave her room when her father 's funeral took place downstairs . dickinson published few than a dozen poems in her lifetime . in fact , no one knew that she 'd been nearly so prolific until her sister discovered more than 1800 poems after emily 's death in 1886 .	how many poems did emily dickinson write between 1855 and 1868 ?	how many poems did emily dickinson write between 1855 and 1868 ?
in western astrology , it 's a constellation determined by when your birthday falls in the calendar . but according to the chinese zodiac , or shēngxiào , it 's your shǔxiàng , meaning the animal assigned to your birth year . and of the many myths explaining these animal signs and their arrangement , the most enduring one is that of the great race .	what are the five elements of the chinese zodiac ?	what are the five elements of the chinese zodiac ?
recent studies have also found a link between obesity and variations in the bacteria species that live in our digestive systems . no matter the cause , obesity is an escalating global epidemic . it substantially raises the probability of diseases , like diabetes , heart disease , stroke , high blood pressure , and cancer .	describe the role that access to healthy food plays in the obesity epidemic , and why some populations might be at a disadvantage .	describe the role that access to healthy food plays in the obesity epidemic , and why some populations might be at a disadvantage .
however , a legal shift has raised concerns involving privacy and government surveillance . today , the united nations , national governments , and various nonprofits fight against money laundering , yet the practice continues to play a major role in global crime . and the most high-profile instances of money laundering have involved not just private individuals , but major financial institutions and government officials .	what tools can be used to detect money laundering in today ’ s global economy ?	what tools can be used to detect money laundering in today ’ s global economy ?
you 'll find that this strategy works for any possible arrangement of the hats . the first prisoner has a 50 % chance of giving a wrong answer about his own hat , but the parity information he conveys allows everyone else to guess theirs with absolute certainty . each begins by expecting to see an odd or even number of hats of the specified color . if what they count does n't match , that means their own hat is that color . and everytime this happens , the next person in line will switch the parity they expect to see .	why can ’ t the first person be sure of their hat color ?	why can ’ t the first person be sure of their hat color ?
you 'll find that this strategy works for any possible arrangement of the hats . the first prisoner has a 50 % chance of giving a wrong answer about his own hat , but the parity information he conveys allows everyone else to guess theirs with absolute certainty . each begins by expecting to see an odd or even number of hats of the specified color . if what they count does n't match , that means their own hat is that color . and everytime this happens , the next person in line will switch the parity they expect to see .	what process does each person after the first use to figure out their hat color ?	what process does each person after the first use to figure out their hat color ?
since this ensures her support , charlotte does n't need to offer daniel anything at all . what if there are four pirates ? as captain , bart would still only need one other vote for his plan to pass .	why can ’ t the pirates coordinate their votes ?	why can ’ t the pirates coordinate their votes ?
when you hear the word art , what comes to mind ? a painting , like the mona lisa , or a famous sculpture or a building ?	how does art historical terminology shape our views of objects ? what do you think of when you hear the words “ fine art , ” “ folk art , ” “ primitive , ” “ artisan , ” “ innovative , ” “ craftsmanship , ” “ decorative arts , ” “ masterpiece ? ”	how does art historical terminology shape our views of objects ? what do you think of when you hear the words “ fine art , ” “ folk art , ” “ primitive , ” “ artisan , ” “ innovative , ” “ craftsmanship , ” “ decorative arts , ” “ masterpiece ? ”
a million kernels of corn is about 1,250 ears , so one kernel in that truckload would be one part per million . there are 10 million bricks in the empire state building , so one part per million would be a pile of just ten . and finally , 100 people worked together to animate this video . collectively , they have about 10 million hairs on their heads .	let ’ s think of the fingers on your hands as people - so , ten fingers represent ten people . how big of a group of friends would have to gather together to represent a million people using fingers ?	let ’ s think of the fingers on your hands as people - so , ten fingers represent ten people . how big of a group of friends would have to gather together to represent a million people using fingers ?
it has taken millions of years for that light to reach us . so the universe itself is in some sense an inbuilt time machine . the further we can look back , the younger the universe we are probing .	astronomers often talk about the early universe . since time is directional and does not allow us to travel to the past , explain how it is possible to study the early universe .	astronomers often talk about the early universe . since time is directional and does not allow us to travel to the past , explain how it is possible to study the early universe .
if you change the structure of a protein , you often change something about what it does in the organism . now if that change leads to a longer life or more babies for a mouse , something evolutionary biologists call fitness , then that single base-pair change will spread quickly in an urban population . so this crazy figure is called a manhattan plot , because it kind of looks like a skyline .	what do evolutionary biologists mean when they talk about “ fitness ” ?	what do evolutionary biologists mean when they talk about “ fitness ” ?
as a result of our ancestor 's adaptability , today the planet is full of people with a vast palette of skin colors , typically , darker eumelanin-rich skin in the hot , sunny band around the equator , and increasingly lighter pheomelanin-rich skin shades fanning outwards as the sunshine dwindles . therefore , skin color is little more than an adaptive trait for living on a rock that orbits the sun . it may absorb light , but it certainly does not reflect character .	what useful trait did the early ancestors living in the sun-saturated latitudes pass on to their offspring ?	what useful trait did the early ancestors living in the sun-saturated latitudes pass on to their offspring ?
mastering any physical skill , be it performing a pirouette , playing an instrument , or throwing a baseball , takes practice . practice is the repetition of an action with the goal of improvement , and it helps us perform with more ease , speed , and confidence .	how is slow practice beneficial in the development of complex , coordinated skills in dance , sports , the martial arts , and playing a musical instrument ?	how is slow practice beneficial in the development of complex , coordinated skills in dance , sports , the martial arts , and playing a musical instrument ?
so this is manganese metal . you know , very often in chemistry we use manganese in the form of permanganate as an oxidizing agent but this is manganese metal . manganese is right in the middle of the row of transition metals and it has 5 electrons , which can give it a really very rich chemistry .	what is the purple salt we use in the lab as an oxidising agent ?	what is the purple salt we use in the lab as an oxidising agent ?
so this is manganese metal . you know , very often in chemistry we use manganese in the form of permanganate as an oxidizing agent but this is manganese metal . manganese is right in the middle of the row of transition metals and it has 5 electrons , which can give it a really very rich chemistry .	when was manganese discovered ?	when was manganese discovered ?
said to the klutzy kid tripping into english class and spilling his books and pencil case all over the room , now that is just harsh and verbally ironic because what you said is not what you meant . that is verbal irony . you have said the opposite of what you mean .	verbal irony occurs :	verbal irony occurs :
said to the klutzy kid tripping into english class and spilling his books and pencil case all over the room , now that is just harsh and verbally ironic because what you said is not what you meant . that is verbal irony . you have said the opposite of what you mean .	which two things often occur simultaneously ? verbal irony and :	which two things often occur simultaneously ? verbal irony and :
said to the klutzy kid tripping into english class and spilling his books and pencil case all over the room , now that is just harsh and verbally ironic because what you said is not what you meant . that is verbal irony . you have said the opposite of what you mean .	verbal irony and compliments are basically the same thing .	verbal irony and compliments are basically the same thing .
said to the klutzy kid tripping into english class and spilling his books and pencil case all over the room , now that is just harsh and verbally ironic because what you said is not what you meant . that is verbal irony . you have said the opposite of what you mean .	what 's an example of verbal irony ?	what 's an example of verbal irony ?
yankee quickly came to mean new englander , and by the 1780s , it was used to look down upon any american . during the revolution , colonists co-opted yankee and transformed it into a mark of national honor . the civil war , however , intensified the derisive definition when it was used by southerners to mock members of the union .	why do you think the colonists transformed yankee from an insult into a source of pride ?	why do you think the colonists transformed yankee from an insult into a source of pride ?
the public was shocked , critics denounced it as immoral , and even picasso 's own friends were simultaneously surprised , offended , and mesmerized at his audacity . more artists soon followed in picasso 's footsteps . constantin brâncuși and amedeo modigliani in paris , as well as the german expressionists , all drew on the aesthetics of african sculptures in their work .	artist pablo picasso used references from other cultures to make his groundbreaking painting les demoiselles d ’ avignon . in today ’ s society , where do you think artists find inspiration ? where would you find it ?	artist pablo picasso used references from other cultures to make his groundbreaking painting les demoiselles d ’ avignon . in today ’ s society , where do you think artists find inspiration ? where would you find it ?
in an oscillating system , the frequency is how many back and forth movement cycles occur within a second . this is the inverse of the period , which is how many seconds it takes to complete one cycle . and a building 's natural frequency , determined by its mass and stiffness , is the frequency that its vibrations will tend to cluster around . increasing a building 's mass slows down the rate at which it naturally vibrates , while increasing stiffness makes it vibrate faster .	the natural period of a building is :	the natural period of a building is :
so what are some techniques you can use to achieve this in your own writing ? limit the point of view . instead of an omniscient narrator who can see and relay everything that happens , tell the story from the perspective of the characters .	a ‘ limited point of view ’ means…	a ‘ limited point of view ’ means…
right before this dialogue , polonius is the father of ophelia , who is in love with prince hamlet . king claudius is trying to figure out why prince hamlet is acting so crazy since the king married prince hamlet 's mother . polonius offers to use his daughter to get information from prince hamlet .	the globe theatre is a monument to actors and acting everywhere . research the theatre and then create your own visual version of the theatre labeling the various sections of the theatre and their purpose .	the globe theatre is a monument to actors and acting everywhere . research the theatre and then create your own visual version of the theatre labeling the various sections of the theatre and their purpose .
for the rest of the year , when sunlight is scarce , the increased moisture and clouds actually warm the surface by trapping the earth 's heat , turning the feedback loop positive for all but a couple of months . while negative feedback loops encourage stability by pushing a system towards equilibrium , positive feedback loops destabilize it by enabling larger and larger deviations . and the recently increased impact of positive feedbacks may have consequences far beyond the arctic . on a warming planet , these feedbacks ensure that the north pole warms at a faster rate than the equator .	how do positive and negative climate feedbacks differ ? make a chart of their differences and give your own example of each .	how do positive and negative climate feedbacks differ ? make a chart of their differences and give your own example of each .
it was one of the elements that mendeleev predicted ought to exist when he first devised the periodic table , when he made it there were lots of elements which were not known , but what he did was to predict that there were holes in various places where he felt that there ought to be an element and because obviously these elements did not have names , he called them ekea boron or ekea aluminium or ekea silicon meaning underneath those elements . and the triumph of the periodic table was that people actually discovered these elements . and the first one that was discovered was the element gallium ( ekea aluminium ) and the second one was ekea boron which is scandium . now you might think that it is a bit surprising because if you look at a modern periodic table , scandium and boron are really quite a long way apart but in the original way that medeleev started the periodic table when he wrote it down first , scandium and boron came very close together because both of them , have three electrons in their outer shell which makes their chemistry quite similar . of course medeleev did not know about electrons , but he guessed from looking at titanium which has four electrons and calcium which has two that he thought there was something missing and what is also interesting about these three elements that he predicted is that they all ended up with names of countries .	in his first periodic table ( 1869 ) , dmitri mendeleev predicted the existence of the element scandium and two others . what was the first , temporary name that the father of the periodic table gave to this element ?	in his first periodic table ( 1869 ) , dmitri mendeleev predicted the existence of the element scandium and two others . what was the first , temporary name that the father of the periodic table gave to this element ?
wrong ! you 've just unleashed a flesh-eating zombie . nouns made from other parts of speech are called nominalizations . academics love them .	sword calls nominalizations “ zombie nouns ” because they	sword calls nominalizations “ zombie nouns ” because they
a dream ? poetry generally has certain recognizable characteristics . one - poems emphasize language 's musical qualities .	which of the following is not a characteristic traditionally associated with poetry ?	which of the following is not a characteristic traditionally associated with poetry ?
a dream ? poetry generally has certain recognizable characteristics . one - poems emphasize language 's musical qualities .	which of the following was not an example from the lesson that challenged a traditional concept of poetry ?	which of the following was not an example from the lesson that challenged a traditional concept of poetry ?
a dream ? poetry generally has certain recognizable characteristics . one - poems emphasize language 's musical qualities .	william carlos williams described poetry as a machine made of words . lilian moore described poetry as a firework . after watching this video , think of another metaphor that represents poetry well .	william carlos williams described poetry as a machine made of words . lilian moore described poetry as a firework . after watching this video , think of another metaphor that represents poetry well .
you see , for most mammals , the sex of a baby is determined genetically with the xy chromosome system . mammals have a pair of sex chromosomes , one passed down from mom , and one from dad . a pair of x 's gives us a girl , and an x and a y together gives us a boy .	in the movie finding nemo , nemo and his dad , marlin , are clownfish . if the writers of finding nemo had made the movie more scientifically accurate , what would have most likely happened when nemo ’ s mom was eaten by a barracuda ?	in the movie finding nemo , nemo and his dad , marlin , are clownfish . if the writers of finding nemo had made the movie more scientifically accurate , what would have most likely happened when nemo ’ s mom was eaten by a barracuda ?
slapping thighs , shuffling feet and patting hands : this was how they got around the slave owners ' ban on drumming , improvising complex rhythms just like ancestors did with drums in haiti or in the yoruba communities of west africa . it was about keeping cultural traditions alive and retaining a sense of inner freedom under captivity . it was the same subversive spirit that created this dance : the cakewalk , a dance that parodied the mannerisms of southern high society -- a way for the enslaved to throw shade at the masters .	social dance allows cultural traditions to be kept alive despite what is going on in the world . why is this important ? provide an example of this from the lesson .	social dance allows cultural traditions to be kept alive despite what is going on in the world . why is this important ? provide an example of this from the lesson .
if we look even deeper , we can see beyond the shadow of a doubt , just how revealing that `` b '' can be . there are only two base words in all of english that have the letters `` d-o-u-b '' : one is doubt , and the other is double . we can build lots of other words on each of these bases , like doubtful and doubtless , or doublet , and redouble , and doubloon .	find three words with silent letters . why are those letters present in the words today ?	find three words with silent letters . why are those letters present in the words today ?
if we look even deeper , we can see beyond the shadow of a doubt , just how revealing that `` b '' can be . there are only two base words in all of english that have the letters `` d-o-u-b '' : one is doubt , and the other is double . we can build lots of other words on each of these bases , like doubtful and doubtless , or doublet , and redouble , and doubloon .	there are only two base words in the entire english language that have the letters d , o , u , and b. what are they ?	there are only two base words in the entire english language that have the letters d , o , u , and b. what are they ?
that 's why , instead of trying to write out an infinite number of digits every time , we just refer to it using the greek letter pi . nowadays , we test the speed of computers by having them calculate pi , and quantum computers have been able to calculate it up to two quadrillion digits . people even compete to see how many digits they can memorize and have set records for remembering over 67,000 of them .	name two other numbers that are as important ( or more important ) than pi .	name two other numbers that are as important ( or more important ) than pi .
however , we do know individual genetics , other medical problems , use of certain medications , smoking , and the genetic diversity of helicobacter strains all play a role . in particular , certain pain medications used to reduce inflammation in joints have been discovered to work with h. pylori to create more severe stomach ulcers . dr. marshall ended up being fine after his famous , albeit dangerous , experiment .	what are some the ways that allow helicobacter pylori to disrupt this system to create stomach ulcers ?	what are some the ways that allow helicobacter pylori to disrupt this system to create stomach ulcers ?
so , ignoring the geometry lesson , and taking matters into their own hands , the bees went back to the drawing board to rethink their beehive design . one suggested triangles , `` we can use triangles . look !	if the following regular polygons all had the same perimeter , which one would have the greater area ?	if the following regular polygons all had the same perimeter , which one would have the greater area ?
[ say , `` there is no god but god . '' ] for syrians , it is so normal to open your facebook and see the death of your friend on social media . it is something that is really hard and that is really difficult to accept , to observe , and to even think about .	in the film , what role does technology play in the refugees ' lives ? what might it be like to see—through social media—your family , culture , and social network in crisis from the distance of another country ?	in the film , what role does technology play in the refugees ' lives ? what might it be like to see—through social media—your family , culture , and social network in crisis from the distance of another country ?
what forbes failed to take into account is something called marine snow , which sounds much nicer than it is . marine snow is basically organic matter , things like particles of dead algae , plants , and animals , drifting down into the depths and acting as food for deep-sea animals . largely thanks to that , abundant life forms exist in the darkness , adapting to a harsh reality where only the weird and wonderful can survive .	which adaptation is commonly observed in deep sea animals ?	which adaptation is commonly observed in deep sea animals ?
what forbes failed to take into account is something called marine snow , which sounds much nicer than it is . marine snow is basically organic matter , things like particles of dead algae , plants , and animals , drifting down into the depths and acting as food for deep-sea animals . largely thanks to that , abundant life forms exist in the darkness , adapting to a harsh reality where only the weird and wonderful can survive .	which animals are typical deep sea animals ?	which animals are typical deep sea animals ?
what forbes failed to take into account is something called marine snow , which sounds much nicer than it is . marine snow is basically organic matter , things like particles of dead algae , plants , and animals , drifting down into the depths and acting as food for deep-sea animals . largely thanks to that , abundant life forms exist in the darkness , adapting to a harsh reality where only the weird and wonderful can survive .	which other adaptations might deep sea animals have ?	which other adaptations might deep sea animals have ?
what forbes failed to take into account is something called marine snow , which sounds much nicer than it is . marine snow is basically organic matter , things like particles of dead algae , plants , and animals , drifting down into the depths and acting as food for deep-sea animals . largely thanks to that , abundant life forms exist in the darkness , adapting to a harsh reality where only the weird and wonderful can survive .	why do deep-sea animals suffer dwarfism and/or gigantism ?	why do deep-sea animals suffer dwarfism and/or gigantism ?
what forbes failed to take into account is something called marine snow , which sounds much nicer than it is . marine snow is basically organic matter , things like particles of dead algae , plants , and animals , drifting down into the depths and acting as food for deep-sea animals . largely thanks to that , abundant life forms exist in the darkness , adapting to a harsh reality where only the weird and wonderful can survive .	do you think animals from the deep sea could survive when brought up to the surface ?	do you think animals from the deep sea could survive when brought up to the surface ?
if you wake up one morning with 1,000 times the strength you had the night before , how will you handle delicate day-to-day tasks ? everything must seem so fragile to you since the scale of your strength has expanded one thousand times .	if you wake up one morning with 1,000 times the strength you had the night before , you ’ d have to be careful when you are	if you wake up one morning with 1,000 times the strength you had the night before , you ’ d have to be careful when you are
these rays are separated by their different wave lengths , into types such as uva and uvb , which exert a variety of effects in the skin due to the absorption patterns of chromophores , the parts of the molecules responsible for their color . the primary two chromophores are hemoglobin , found in our red blood cells , and melanin , which gives our skin its pigment . we know that uvb rays cause the skin to burn .	in addition to hemoglobin , the other primary chromophore in the skin is :	in addition to hemoglobin , the other primary chromophore in the skin is :
sandwiched between two layers of skin , the mesoglea is more than 95 % water held together by protein fibers . the jellyfish can contract and relax their bells to propel themselves . they do n't have a brain or a spinal cord , but a neural net around the bell 's inner margin forms a rudimentary nervous system that can sense the ocean 's currents and the touch of other animals . jellyfish do n't have typical digestive systems , either . these gelatinous carnivores consume plankton and other small sea creatures through a hole in the underside of their bells .	jellyfish have one of the earliest nervous systems . it is called a neural __________ that weaves around the inner margin of the bell .	jellyfish have one of the earliest nervous systems . it is called a neural __________ that weaves around the inner margin of the bell .
but to keep things consistent , the creators of star trek and other science-fiction worlds have introduced the concept of a universal translator , a portable device that can instantly translate between any languages . so is a universal translator possible in real life ? we already have many programs that claim to do just that , taking a word , sentence , or entire book in one language and translating it into almost any other , whether it 's modern english or ancient sanskrit .	why would semantics play an important role in a machine translator ?	why would semantics play an important role in a machine translator ?
another theorem tells us that if you had a bunch of curves of constant width with the same width , they would all have the same perimeter , but the reuleaux triangle would have the smallest area . the circle , which is effectively a reuleaux polygon with an infinite number of sides , has the largest . in three dimensions , we can make surfaces of constant width , like the reuleaux tetrahedron , formed by taking a tetrahedron , expanding a sphere from each vertex until it touches the opposite vertices , and throwing everything away except the region where they overlap . surfaces of constant width maintain a constant distance between two parallel planes .	a reuleaux tetrahedron _____ .	a reuleaux tetrahedron _____ .
and to stay in peak physical condition , they learned a variety of sports , such as discus , javelin , and horseback riding . in sparta , it was believed that only strong and capable women could bear children that would one day become strong and capable warriors . to all spartans , men and women , perhaps the most important lesson from spartan school was allegiance to sparta .	in 1859 , scientist charles darwin presented the idea that nature had a natural selection to keep the better adapted organisms thriving and get rid of poorer adapted ones . soon after reading darwin ’ s work , herbert spencer , an english philosopher , coined a phrase “ survival of the fittest ” meaning only the strong survive . do you think sparta proves this theory to be true ? how or how not ?	in 1859 , scientist charles darwin presented the idea that nature had a natural selection to keep the better adapted organisms thriving and get rid of poorer adapted ones . soon after reading darwin ’ s work , herbert spencer , an english philosopher , coined a phrase “ survival of the fittest ” meaning only the strong survive . do you think sparta proves this theory to be true ? how or how not ?
but over the course of history , some of our most respected philosophers have put forward some intriguing theories . love makes us whole , again . the ancient greek philosopher plato explored the idea that we love in order to become complete .	according to schopenhauer , love is a trick that nature plays in order to get us to do what ?	according to schopenhauer , love is a trick that nature plays in order to get us to do what ?
romeo : the exchange of thy love 's faithful vows for mine . without dialogue : ( cricket sounds ) so what goes into writing effective dialogue ? well , there are social skills : making friends , solving conflicts , being pleasant and polite .	read the discussions of wuthering heights and crime and punishment in the article , “ creating effective dialogue , ” by william h. coles ( available at http : //fictioneditorsopinions.com/2009/08/creating-effective-dialog/ ) . now , consider some examples of fictional dialogue that you ’ ve particularly enjoyed reading . what do you think made the dialogue effective ? which techniques did the author seem to be using ?	read the discussions of wuthering heights and crime and punishment in the article , “ creating effective dialogue , ” by william h. coles ( available at http : //fictioneditorsopinions.com/2009/08/creating-effective-dialog/ ) . now , consider some examples of fictional dialogue that you ’ ve particularly enjoyed reading . what do you think made the dialogue effective ? which techniques did the author seem to be using ?
romeo : the exchange of thy love 's faithful vows for mine . without dialogue : ( cricket sounds ) so what goes into writing effective dialogue ? well , there are social skills : making friends , solving conflicts , being pleasant and polite .	why might an author add dialogue to a story ?	why might an author add dialogue to a story ?
romeo : the exchange of thy love 's faithful vows for mine . without dialogue : ( cricket sounds ) so what goes into writing effective dialogue ? well , there are social skills : making friends , solving conflicts , being pleasant and polite .	which one of the following skills goes into writing dialogue ?	which one of the following skills goes into writing dialogue ?
romeo : the exchange of thy love 's faithful vows for mine . without dialogue : ( cricket sounds ) so what goes into writing effective dialogue ? well , there are social skills : making friends , solving conflicts , being pleasant and polite .	why is it useful to mutter to yourself while writing dialogue ?	why is it useful to mutter to yourself while writing dialogue ?
romeo : the exchange of thy love 's faithful vows for mine . without dialogue : ( cricket sounds ) so what goes into writing effective dialogue ? well , there are social skills : making friends , solving conflicts , being pleasant and polite .	imagine you are writing dialogue for two teenagers at a party . which of the following lines sounds more natural ?	imagine you are writing dialogue for two teenagers at a party . which of the following lines sounds more natural ?
so this is mercury . it ’ s a liquid metal , it is one of the , well , one liquid metal at this temperature .	why has mercury been replaced by galinstan alloy to make clinical thermometers ?	why has mercury been replaced by galinstan alloy to make clinical thermometers ?
some of the smaller sloths did survive and migrated to the treetops . today , there are six species left living in the rainforest canopies of central and south america . hanging out in the trees is a good way to avoid predators , and there are plenty of leaves to eat .	how many sloth species are alive today ?	how many sloth species are alive today ?
blue things reflect blue light , red things reflect red light and so on . white objects reflect all colors of light , while black things do exactly the opposite and absorb at all frequencies . this - by the way - is why it 's uncomfortable to wear your favorite metallica t-shirt on a sunny day .	explain ( in your own words ) why it 's better to wear lighter colors ( such as white and pale yellow ) during the summer and better to wear darker colors ( like black and charcoal gray ) in the winter .	explain ( in your own words ) why it 's better to wear lighter colors ( such as white and pale yellow ) during the summer and better to wear darker colors ( like black and charcoal gray ) in the winter .
blue things reflect blue light , red things reflect red light and so on . white objects reflect all colors of light , while black things do exactly the opposite and absorb at all frequencies . this - by the way - is why it 's uncomfortable to wear your favorite metallica t-shirt on a sunny day .	white objects reflect all colors of light and black objects absorb all colors of light .	white objects reflect all colors of light and black objects absorb all colors of light .
but so far we 've only talked about twitter , right ? and twitter is n't all the data . we learned a moment ago that there is tons and tons , tons more data out there . and specifically , i want you to think about one type of data because all of you guys , everybody in this audience , we , we , me as well , are data-making machines . we are producing data all the time . every single one of us , we 're producing data .	according to thorp , you own data that 's gathered :	according to thorp , you own data that 's gathered :
she cries when she 's sad , when she 's happy , ( godzilla roars ) and even tears up when things just get to her . she has special lacrimal glands to make new tears and special tubes , called lacrimal puncta , to drain old ones away . and she cries so much that she goes through ten ounces of tears per day , thirty gallons a year !	why are the lacrimal puncta important ?	why are the lacrimal puncta important ?
she cries when she 's sad , when she 's happy , ( godzilla roars ) and even tears up when things just get to her . she has special lacrimal glands to make new tears and special tubes , called lacrimal puncta , to drain old ones away . and she cries so much that she goes through ten ounces of tears per day , thirty gallons a year !	what are the special glands called that make new tears ?	what are the special glands called that make new tears ?
which leaves just one last question . why did shakespeare choose iambic pentameter for these moments , rather than , say , trochaic hexameter or dactylic tetrameter ? it 's been said that iambic pentameter was easy for his actors to memorize and for the audience to understand because it 's naturally suited to the english language .	shakespeare 's characters often speak in iambic pentameter when they are feeling _____ .	shakespeare 's characters often speak in iambic pentameter when they are feeling _____ .
they write or talk more about others , often using the third person to distance and disassociate themselves from their lie , which sounds more false : `` absolutely no party took place at this house , '' or `` i did n't host a party here . '' second , liars tend to be more negative , because on a subconscious level , they feel guilty about lying . for example , a liar might say something like , `` sorry , my stupid phone battery died .	do you notice others behaving strangely when they are lying ? what behaviors do you notice ?	do you notice others behaving strangely when they are lying ? what behaviors do you notice ?
they write or talk more about others , often using the third person to distance and disassociate themselves from their lie , which sounds more false : `` absolutely no party took place at this house , '' or `` i did n't host a party here . '' second , liars tend to be more negative , because on a subconscious level , they feel guilty about lying . for example , a liar might say something like , `` sorry , my stupid phone battery died .	do liars use more positive or negative language ?	do liars use more positive or negative language ?
in some people , glitches in the pathways responsible for all of this can cause excessive itching that can actually harm their health . one extreme example is a psychological condition called delusory parasitosis where people believe their bodies are infested with mites or fleas scurrying over and under their skin , making them itch incessantly . another phenomenon called phantom itching can occur in patients who 've had amputations .	true or false : sometimes itch signals can be misleading , making people feel sensations that don ’ t exist .	true or false : sometimes itch signals can be misleading , making people feel sensations that don ’ t exist .
they used the power of curiosity to try and understand the viewpoints and peculiarities of other places , perhaps because they , themselves , were seen as so unusual in their own societies . but their journeys revealed to them something more than the ways of foreign lands , they revealed something only they , themselves , could find : a sense of their own self .	can you think of a time that seeing or experiencing something new meant that you could never look at the world in quite the same way again ? explain .	can you think of a time that seeing or experiencing something new meant that you could never look at the world in quite the same way again ? explain .
this cell would have a surface area of 600 square micrometers and a volume of one thousand cubic micrometers , a ratio of only .6 to one . that 's less than one unit of surface area to service each unit of volume . as the cube grows , its volume increases much faster than its surface area .	which of the following are ways that cells can increase the amount of surface area per unit of volume ? 1. be long and skinny 2. have a folded up the membrane 3. be coenocytic 4. be a cube 5. be smaller	which of the following are ways that cells can increase the amount of surface area per unit of volume ? 1. be long and skinny 2. have a folded up the membrane 3. be coenocytic 4. be a cube 5. be smaller
he called them `` electrics . '' about 40 years later , in nearby norwich , sir thomas browne carried out similar experiments . he did n't figure out anything different from william gilbert , yet the way he described the experiments coined the word we use all the time .	sir thomas browne coined what word ?	sir thomas browne coined what word ?
if you 've ever recommended a product or movie , a service , or even a video online , then you 've played your part in passing the message . so soak all this information up . recognize how the family tree of technical codes works on you , and those around you , to make an impact find excellent examples , and spread the word .	through which of these channels do you absorb information ?	through which of these channels do you absorb information ?
so ytterby gruva , ytterby mine , what a great place , the snow is falling . this is designated ytterby mine , a historical landmark for the discovery of four periodic elements : yttrium , terbium , erbium , and ytterbium . terbium was eventually discovered or eventually isolated by the chemist mosander in 1843 .	to record this video , pete and brady traveled to `` the village of the four elements '' . together with terbium , which other three elements were discovered in ytterby , sweden ?	to record this video , pete and brady traveled to `` the village of the four elements '' . together with terbium , which other three elements were discovered in ytterby , sweden ?
in some profoundly important way , they 're also a part of me , and are here with me . maybe that 's why i find it hard to respond to questions about identity and about origin . and it 's not just a sort of teenager refusal to be labelled .	why does bhatt find it hard to respond to questions about identity and about origin ?	why does bhatt find it hard to respond to questions about identity and about origin ?
and that ’ s how we got this . the pyramids of giza . how did people who hadn ’ t even invented the wheel build these things , and… why ?	pyramids were ideal for building large-scale monuments because the design offered the most stability for the least amount of ...	pyramids were ideal for building large-scale monuments because the design offered the most stability for the least amount of ...
and with the food surpluses that these techniques produced , it was no longer necessary for everyone to farm . this allowed the development of other specialized trades , and , by extension , cities . with cities now producing surplus food , as well as tools , crafts , and other goods , there was now the possibility of commerce and interaction over longer distances .	in 3-4 sentences , discuss the importance of improvements in farming techniques to the development of cities .	in 3-4 sentences , discuss the importance of improvements in farming techniques to the development of cities .
a living fossil . decades later , a second species was found near indonesia . the survival of creatures thought extinct for so long proved to be one of the biggest discoveries of the century .	where was a second species of coelacanth found decades after marjorie courtenay-latimer ?	where was a second species of coelacanth found decades after marjorie courtenay-latimer ?
newton 's prism experiments showed that white light could not only be broken into its component colors with one prism , but that a second lens could recompose those colors back into white light again , thus showing that color was a matter of light 's refraction rather than how light or dark it was . newton 's studies of optics led to the development of the reflecting telescope . this , together with his study of planetary motion , led to his theory of gravitation , one of the world 's greatest examples of learning to see something invisible by observing its effect on things that are visible .	according to timothy , what is optics ?	according to timothy , what is optics ?
she has been playing soccer since the age of five . currently working for grassroots soccer as the port elizabeth project coordinator , titie is a key facilitator in raising hiv ? aids awareness among youth and people of her community . she believes that this is a fight for the world .	how can sports be used in your community to improve social engagement ?	how can sports be used in your community to improve social engagement ?
this can get a little confusing because lower numbers mean bigger apertures and higher numbers mean smaller apertures . next , there 's shutter speed to think about . the shutter acts like a curtain that covers the sensor , and it only opens when you release the shutter button .	it is night , you are camping next to a beautiful lake and you want to make a landscape photo . how can you get a well-exposed ( and not blurry ) image ?	it is night , you are camping next to a beautiful lake and you want to make a landscape photo . how can you get a well-exposed ( and not blurry ) image ?
spermicide is only 85 % effective , even with perfect usage , and just 71 % effective with typical usage . another important consideration in the choice of contraceptives are side effects , which almost exclusively affect women rather than men . hormonal methods in particular can cause symptoms like headaches , nausea , and high blood pressure , but they vary from woman to woman .	why do the side effects from contraceptives almost exclusively affect women ?	why do the side effects from contraceptives almost exclusively affect women ?
in quantum physics , atoms and electrons are interpreted as a collection of distinct properties , for example , position , momentum , and intrinsic spin . the values of these properties configure the particle , giving it a quantum state identity . if two electrons have the same quantum state , they 're identical . in a literal sense , our baseball is defined by a collective quantum state resulting from its many atoms . if this quantum state information could be read in boston and sent around the world , atoms for the same chemical elements could have this information imprinted on them in bangalore and be carefully directed to assemble , becoming the exact same baseball .	define a quantum state for a quantum particle :	define a quantum state for a quantum particle :
some can release their dna upon death to be picked up by other bacteria , while others use a method called conjugation , connecting through pili to share their genes . over time , the resistant genes proliferate , creating entire strains of resistant super bacteria . so how much time do we have before these superbugs take over ?	not all bacteria are antibiotic-resistant . how might some of those non-resistant bacteria become antibiotic-resistant ?	not all bacteria are antibiotic-resistant . how might some of those non-resistant bacteria become antibiotic-resistant ?
some can release their dna upon death to be picked up by other bacteria , while others use a method called conjugation , connecting through pili to share their genes . over time , the resistant genes proliferate , creating entire strains of resistant super bacteria . so how much time do we have before these superbugs take over ?	a lack of antibiotics reduces overall bacterial death . how does this decrease the likelihood that antibiotic-resistant bacteria will outcompete non-resistant bacteria ?	a lack of antibiotics reduces overall bacterial death . how does this decrease the likelihood that antibiotic-resistant bacteria will outcompete non-resistant bacteria ?
some can release their dna upon death to be picked up by other bacteria , while others use a method called conjugation , connecting through pili to share their genes . over time , the resistant genes proliferate , creating entire strains of resistant super bacteria . so how much time do we have before these superbugs take over ?	more and more bacteria are becoming antibiotic-resistant . how might this affect our ability to fight certain infectious diseases in the future ?	more and more bacteria are becoming antibiotic-resistant . how might this affect our ability to fight certain infectious diseases in the future ?
your heart ? not the things themselves , mind you , but what they 're made of : the atoms that are the fabric of all things . to answer that question , we look to the law of conservation of mass . this law says take an isolated system defined by a boundary that matter and energy can not cross .	mass connects which two things ?	mass connects which two things ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar hello , my name is christian rudder , and i was one of the founders of okcupid . it 's now one of the biggest dating sites in the united states .	christian rudder founded okcupid . what is okcupid ?	christian rudder founded okcupid . what is okcupid ?
catagen lasts for about two to three weeks and cuts blood supply to the follicle , creating a club hair , meaning it 's ready to be shed . finally , hairs enter telogen , the resting phase , which lasts for ten to twelve weeks , and affects about 5-15 % of your scalp follicles . during telogen , up to 200 club hairs can be shed in a day , which is quite normal .	which of the following hair phase ( s ) is known as the 'resting phase ' marked by shedding of club hairs ?	which of the following hair phase ( s ) is known as the 'resting phase ' marked by shedding of club hairs ?
`` barbecue '' ! ! the word derives from the word `` barabicu '' , which to the taíno people in the caribbean islands meant `` sacred fire pit '' . we are definitely on sacred ground today .	the word barbecue is derived from the taino word barabicu . the taino people populated what part of the world ?	the word barbecue is derived from the taino word barabicu . the taino people populated what part of the world ?
while there was free health care and education in the east , the west boasted higher salaries , more consumer goods , and greater personal freedom . by 1961 , about 3.5 million people , nearly 20 % of the east german population , had left , including many young professionals . to prevent further losses , east germany decided to close the border , and that 's where the berlin wall came in .	what effect would the loss of young people have on a country ?	what effect would the loss of young people have on a country ?
so there we see it . that 's an action potential . you 've got 100 billion cells in your brain doing this right now , sending all this information back about what you 're seeing , hearing .	what is action potential or `` spike '' ?	what is action potential or `` spike '' ?
so there we see it . that 's an action potential . you 've got 100 billion cells in your brain doing this right now , sending all this information back about what you 're seeing , hearing .	action potentials or “ spikes ” are used by the nervous system to send :	action potentials or “ spikes ” are used by the nervous system to send :
instead , the air is recycled back into the lungs , creating sound once more . one reason whale songs are so fascinating is their pattern . units , like moans , cries , and chirps are arranged in phrases .	which organs are most likely involved in whale song production ?	which organs are most likely involved in whale song production ?
instead , the air is recycled back into the lungs , creating sound once more . one reason whale songs are so fascinating is their pattern . units , like moans , cries , and chirps are arranged in phrases .	which is the correct order of pattern segments that whale songs are broken down into by scientists , from simplest to most complex ?	which is the correct order of pattern segments that whale songs are broken down into by scientists , from simplest to most complex ?
delicious , for sure , but the fact is potatoes have played a much more significant role in our history than just that of the dietary staple we have come to know and love today . without the potato , our modern civilization might not exist at all . 8,000 years ago in south america , high atop the andes , ancient peruvians were the first to cultivate the potato .	the ______ civilization was aided by the potato 's nutritional value .	the ______ civilization was aided by the potato 's nutritional value .
if that was n't complicated enough , formality , number , and gender can all come into play at the same time . in spanish , `` tú '' is unisex informal singular , `` usted '' is unisex formal singular , `` vosotros '' is masculine informal plural , `` vosotras '' is feminine informal plural , and `` ustedes '' is the unisex formal plural . phew !	even though your language may not have a clear distinction between a formal and an informal “ you , ” this doesn ’ t mean that you don ’ t speak differently to friends and family than you speak to strangers and superiors . what are the ways you change the way you talk based on how familiar you are with the other person ?	even though your language may not have a clear distinction between a formal and an informal “ you , ” this doesn ’ t mean that you don ’ t speak differently to friends and family than you speak to strangers and superiors . what are the ways you change the way you talk based on how familiar you are with the other person ?
some of the issues that are important if you want to have people in space for long periods of time . one is that people will tend to lose bone and muscle mass . we know this .	why do people lose bone mass if they live in space ?	why do people lose bone mass if they live in space ?
but recently , scientists have identified nine physiological traits , ranging from genetic changes to alterations in a cell 's regenerative ability that play a central role . firstly , as the years pass , our bodies accumulate genetic damage in the form of dna lesions . these occur naturally when the body 's dna replicates , but also in non-dividing cells .	dna lesions involved in aging :	dna lesions involved in aging :
now , each row corresponds to what 's called the coefficients of a binomial expansion of the form ( x+y ) ^n , where n is the number of the row , and we start counting from zero . so if you make n=2 and expand it , you get ( x^2 ) + 2xy + ( y^2 ) . the coefficients , or numbers in front of the variables , are the same as the numbers in that row of pascal 's triangle . you 'll see the same thing with n=3 , which expands to this .	deduce from pascal 's triangle the fibonacci numbers : 1 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 21 ...	deduce from pascal 's triangle the fibonacci numbers : 1 , 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 8 , 13 , 21 ...
please allow me 2.5 minutes to explain . my name is ted-ed and i am a symbol for both the ted-ed website and the billions of videos available to you for free on the website known as `` youtube '' . today i invite you on a journey on which you will learn how to use ed.ted.com to create a lesson around the vast majority of videos on the web .	which feature of the ted-ed website excites you the most ?	which feature of the ted-ed website excites you the most ?
please allow me 2.5 minutes to explain . my name is ted-ed and i am a symbol for both the ted-ed website and the billions of videos available to you for free on the website known as `` youtube '' . today i invite you on a journey on which you will learn how to use ed.ted.com to create a lesson around the vast majority of videos on the web .	list the ways you can browse videos on the ted-ed website .	list the ways you can browse videos on the ted-ed website .
please allow me 2.5 minutes to explain . my name is ted-ed and i am a symbol for both the ted-ed website and the billions of videos available to you for free on the website known as `` youtube '' . today i invite you on a journey on which you will learn how to use ed.ted.com to create a lesson around the vast majority of videos on the web .	what type of videos can you flip using the ted-ed website ?	what type of videos can you flip using the ted-ed website ?
however , when the crown was ready , the king suspected that the goldsmith cheated and slipped some silver into the crown , keeping some of the gold for himself . the king asked archimedes to solve the problem . but there was a catch : he could n't do any damage to the crown .	what property did archimedes need to determine in order to solve the king 's mystery ?	what property did archimedes need to determine in order to solve the king 's mystery ?
selenium . so selenium is an element that ’ s quite like sulphur .	what is the main difference between the naturally occurring forms of sulfur and selenium ?	what is the main difference between the naturally occurring forms of sulfur and selenium ?
selenium . so selenium is an element that ’ s quite like sulphur .	why is selenium used in shampoo ?	why is selenium used in shampoo ?
selenium . so selenium is an element that ’ s quite like sulphur .	selenium compounds are used in glassmaking . what color do selenium compounds confer to glass ?	selenium compounds are used in glassmaking . what color do selenium compounds confer to glass ?
so , what did we get ? first of all , this is a model of graphite . the materials in the middle of pencils and it consists of layers of rings , hexagonal rings of carbon atoms .	why is a diamond colorless but graphite is black ?	why is a diamond colorless but graphite is black ?
messages could spread more easily , and copies could constantly be produced , so printing houses popped up all over europe . the product of this bibliographic boom is familiar to us in some respects , but markedly different in others . the skeleton of the book is paper , type , and cover .	what are the benefits of digital texts ? does a digital text offer a different or similar reading experience ?	what are the benefits of digital texts ? does a digital text offer a different or similar reading experience ?
but in practice , that 's 91 % . spermicide is only 85 % effective , even with perfect usage , and just 71 % effective with typical usage . another important consideration in the choice of contraceptives are side effects , which almost exclusively affect women rather than men . hormonal methods in particular can cause symptoms like headaches , nausea , and high blood pressure , but they vary from woman to woman .	how does the effectiveness rate differ from the usage rate of contraceptives ?	how does the effectiveness rate differ from the usage rate of contraceptives ?
( music ) on a typical day at school , endless hours are spent learning the answers to questions . but right now , we 'll do the opposite .	what ’ s anderson puzzling over in the realm of religion ?	what ’ s anderson puzzling over in the realm of religion ?
( music ) on a typical day at school , endless hours are spent learning the answers to questions . but right now , we 'll do the opposite .	what is ironic about all of this ?	what is ironic about all of this ?
the perseids are in august , and the leonids in november . watching a meteor shower is easy : just go outside and look up ! generally , they ’ re better after local midnight .	why does a meteor look like it 's on fire ?	why does a meteor look like it 's on fire ?
the perseids are in august , and the leonids in november . watching a meteor shower is easy : just go outside and look up ! generally , they ’ re better after local midnight .	when is the best time of night to see a meteor shower ?	when is the best time of night to see a meteor shower ?
he turned havana into a luxury playground for foreigners while keeping cubans mired in poverty and killing thousands in police crackdowns . even president kennedy called it the worst example of `` economic colonization , humiliation , and exploitation in the world . '' whatever batista 's faults , it ca n't compare to the totalitarian nightmare castro would create .	why would even president kennedy have initially been sympathetic to the cuban revolution ?	why would even president kennedy have initially been sympathetic to the cuban revolution ?
they even use landmarks on the landscape -- trees , stumps , rocks -- to triangulate to caches buried deep under the snow . what they do n't go back and get , those seeds become whitebark . this symbiosis is so important to both species that they 've changed , or evolved , to suit each other .	how do squirrels get the whitebark pine seeds ?	how do squirrels get the whitebark pine seeds ?
if you pluck it near the bridge , you get mainly even multiple overtones and a twangier sound . the familiar western scale is based on the overtone series of a vibrating string . when we hear one note played with another that has exactly twice its frequency , its first overtone , they sound so harmonious that we assign them the same letter , and define the difference between them as an octave .	western scale is based on the overtone series of a vibrating string which contains 12 notes in between octaves ( chromatic scale : c , c # , d , d # , e , f , f # , g , g # , a , a # , b , c ) . design another possible scale .	western scale is based on the overtone series of a vibrating string which contains 12 notes in between octaves ( chromatic scale : c , c # , d , d # , e , f , f # , g , g # , a , a # , b , c ) . design another possible scale .
these factors make the host more likely to bite another animal and more likely to pass the virus on when it does . and now , meet ophiocordyceps , also known as the zombie fungus . its host of choice is tropical ants that normally live in treetops .	ants infected with ophiocordyceps are often called “ zombie ants. ” explain why .	ants infected with ophiocordyceps are often called “ zombie ants. ” explain why .
can plants talk to each other ? it certainly does n't seem that way .	what are some characteristics of the language of plants ?	what are some characteristics of the language of plants ?
for instance , while pollock 's process resulted in radically flat painted surfaces , the web of painted lines can create the illusion of an infinite layered depth when examined up close . and the chaos of this tangled mess seems to defy all control , but it 's actually the product of a deliberate , though not pre-planned , process . these characteristics made pollock into a celebrity , and within art history , they also elevated him to the mythified status of the genius artist as hero .	`` pollock ’ s paintings are the product of a deliberate , but not preplanned process . '' do you agree or disagree with this statement ? why ?	`` pollock ’ s paintings are the product of a deliberate , but not preplanned process . '' do you agree or disagree with this statement ? why ?
keep adding one book at a time to the sorted sub-line , comparing and swapping the new book with the one before it until it 's correctly placed among the books sorted so far . this is called insertion sort . unlike bubble sort , it usually does n't require comparing every pair of books .	in the video , quicksort was faster than insertion sort and bubble sort because :	in the video , quicksort was faster than insertion sort and bubble sort because :
bud burst , the day when a tree or plant 's leaf or flower buds open , is occurring earlier in the year for some species . for every one degree celsius rise in temperature , bud burst happens five days earlier than usual . differences in timing affect not only plants , but the insects and birds that depend on the plants for food .	for every one degree rise in temperature , bud burst happens how many days earlier ?	for every one degree rise in temperature , bud burst happens how many days earlier ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar the development and spread of railroads across the united states brought a wave of changes to american life . during the railroad boom , thousands of jobs were created , new towns were born , trade increased , transportation was faster , and the overall landscape of the nation transformed . but , perhaps the most interesting change of all is the least known : the establishment of standard time . today , we know if it is 6:28 a.m. in los angeles , it is 9:28 a.m. in new york , 2:28 p.m. in london , 5:28 p.m. in moscow , and 10:28 p.m in tokyo .	according to heuisler , the most interesting change that occurred during the railroad boom is ____________ .	according to heuisler , the most interesting change that occurred during the railroad boom is ____________ .
the venetian oarlock , or fórcola , began as a simple wooden fork , but evolved into a high-precision tool that allowed a gondolier to guide the oar into many positions . by the late 1800s , gondola makers began to make the left side of the gondola wider than the right as a counter balance to the force created by a single gondolier . this modification allowed rowers to steer from the right side only , and without lifting the oar from the water .	in the late 1800s , gondola makers began to make the left side of the gondola wider than the right in order to :	in the late 1800s , gondola makers began to make the left side of the gondola wider than the right in order to :
a food web containing twenty populations can generate thousands of loops of up to twenty links in length . but instead of forming a disordered cacophany , feedback loops in ecological systems play together , creating regular patterns just like multiple instruments , coming together to create a complex but harmonious piece of music . wide-ranging negative feedbacks keep the positive feedbacks in check , like drums maintaining a rhythm . you can look at the way a particular ecosystem functions within its unique habitat as representing its trademark sound .	how do all the feedbacks together in an ecosystem create harmony ? one important mechanism is :	how do all the feedbacks together in an ecosystem create harmony ? one important mechanism is :
but all that impressive nasal architecture would n't be much help without something to process the loads of information the nose scoops up . and it turns out that the olfactory system dedicated to proessing smells takes up many times more relative brain area in dogs than in humans . all of this allows dogs to distinguish and remember a staggering variety of specific scents at concentrations up to 100 million times less than what our noses can detect .	why would the olfactory system in a dog be so much bigger than the olfactory system in a human ?	why would the olfactory system in a dog be so much bigger than the olfactory system in a human ?
from our perspective , sitting on the shoreline or even out on a boat , we 're given only the tiniest glimpses at the real action that 's happening beneath the surface of the waves . and even if you were able to go down there , you would n't see very much because light does n't travel very far in the ocean . so , to answer questions about how the ocean works , in my research , we use sound .	why ca n't you see very much when you 're deep in the ocean ?	why ca n't you see very much when you 're deep in the ocean ?
we trust that it 's an option to lead a good life without regularly making a complete idiot of ourselves . one of the most charming books ever written in early modern europe is called 'in praise of folly ' by the dutch scholar and philosopher , erasmus . in its pages , erasmus advances a hugely liberating argument . in a warm tone , he reminds us that everyone , however important and learned they might be , is a fool .	what was the central argument of erasmus ' in praise of folly ?	what was the central argument of erasmus ' in praise of folly ?
most trees are able to resprout where their trunk is broken to withstand the loss of much of their bark and to survive splitting , twisting and trampling , partly because they evolved to survive attacks by elephants . the american pronghorn can run so fast because it evolved to escape the american cheetah . the surviving animals live in ghost ecosystems adapted to threats from species that no longer exist .	which american species is believed to have driven vast predators , like sabertooths and giant lions , off their prey ?	which american species is believed to have driven vast predators , like sabertooths and giant lions , off their prey ?
this is an example of the anchoring effect , and it 's often used in marketing and negotiations to raise the prices that people are willing to pay . so , if heuristics lead to all these wrong decisions , why do we even have them ? well , because they can be quite effective .	do heuristics always lead to a wrong choice ?	do heuristics always lead to a wrong choice ?
it ’ s usually totally harmless and eventually goes away on its own and is a good hint that you ’ ve probably been looking at that screen enough for one day . looking at bright light can cause more than an eye twitch . in aristotle ’ s `` book of problems '' he asks “ why is it that one sneezes more after one has looked at the sun ” proving that people have been asking a lot of the same questions for a long time and that no one told aristotle that you ’ re not supposed to stare at the sun .	which of the following is not a possible cause for a twitchy eye ?	which of the following is not a possible cause for a twitchy eye ?
the charge from the battery moves on to the two metal plates and makes an electric field that pulls the particle along . and that 's it , you got a particle accelerator . the problem is that an accelerator built this way is very weak .	what causes particles in a particle accelerator to move more quickly ?	what causes particles in a particle accelerator to move more quickly ?
the charge from the battery moves on to the two metal plates and makes an electric field that pulls the particle along . and that 's it , you got a particle accelerator . the problem is that an accelerator built this way is very weak .	what is the role of magnets in a particle accelerator ?	what is the role of magnets in a particle accelerator ?
the charge from the battery moves on to the two metal plates and makes an electric field that pulls the particle along . and that 's it , you got a particle accelerator . the problem is that an accelerator built this way is very weak .	why is gravity not a useful force to exploit in building a particle accelerator ?	why is gravity not a useful force to exploit in building a particle accelerator ?
yet , dependence on another to justify our existence easily leads to boredom and power games . to avoid this trap , beauvoir advised loving authentically , which is more like a great friendship . lovers support each other in discovering themselves , reaching beyond themselves , and enriching their lives and the world together .	how important is friendship in romantic relationships ?	how important is friendship in romantic relationships ?
in 1956 , during a diplomatic reception in moscow , soviet leader nikita khrushchev told western bloc ambassadors , `` my vas pokhoronim ! '' his interpreter rendered that into english as , `` we will bury you ! ''	which of the assertions below is false ?	which of the assertions below is false ?
in the continuous or progressive aspect , the actions are still happening at the time of reference . the perfect aspect describes actions that are finished . the perfect progressive aspect is a combination , describing a completed part of a continuous action .	perfect aspect in english is mostly used to describe actions that :	perfect aspect in english is mostly used to describe actions that :
actually , no . all space is filled with what physicists call quantum fields . what we think of as subatomic particles , electrons and photons and their relatives , are actually vibrations in a quantum fabric that extends throughout the universe .	quantum fields :	quantum fields :
planets are not the only places astrobiologists are looking at . for example , europa , one of the moons of jupiter , and enceladus and titan , two of saturn 's moons , are all exciting possibilities . although these moons are extremely cold and two are covered in thick ice , there is evidence of liquid oceans beneath the shell .	the moons of enceladus and titan orbit which planet ?	the moons of enceladus and titan orbit which planet ?
while her brother finds fame and fortune , she remains abandoned and anonymous . in this thought experiment , woolf demonstrates the tragedy of genius restricted , and looks back through time for hints of these hidden histories . she wrote , `` when one reads of a witch being ducked , of a woman possessed by devils , of a wise woman selling herbs , or even a very remarkable man who had a mother , then i think we 're on the track of a lost novelist , a suppressed poet , of some mute and inglorious jane austen . ''	can you think of different ways time has been represented in literature ? how are they similar or different to woolf ’ s approach ?	can you think of different ways time has been represented in literature ? how are they similar or different to woolf ’ s approach ?
language is an essential part of our lives that we often take for granted . with it , we can communicate our thoughts and feelings , lose ourselves in novels , send text messages , and greet friends .	a paraphasia is :	a paraphasia is :
you do n't even know me . i 'll say something else . do n't call me crazy .	as lissaint employs the metaphor of robbery , there are actually two groups getting robbed . who are they ? why do you think lissaint chose this metaphor instead of something else ( e.g. , a race , a feast , etc . ) ?	as lissaint employs the metaphor of robbery , there are actually two groups getting robbed . who are they ? why do you think lissaint chose this metaphor instead of something else ( e.g. , a race , a feast , etc . ) ?
`` it is , your honor , a clear violation of the logan act of 1799 . '' `` uh , i think we 're forgetting president nixon 's many foreign policy achievements . it was he who normalized ties with china , forging economic ties that continue today . '' `` are we so sure that 's a good thing ?	which of the following was not one of nixon 's economic initiatives ?	which of the following was not one of nixon 's economic initiatives ?
you might think you know a lot about native americans through popular movies , books , and classes in school , but it turns out that a lot of what we think we know about famous native american figures is n't quite right . take sacajawea for example . you probably remember her as a beautiful indian woman who lived an exotic life serving as the all-knowing guide for lewis and clark 's famous expedition , right ?	sacajawea faced a great amount of hardship during her short life yet remained positive and hardworking . it is unlikely she even realized her tremendous significance in lewis and clark ’ s journey.where do you think sacajawea gleaned such motivation ? under similar circumstances , do you think you would remain cheerful and continue to work hard ? why or why not ?	sacajawea faced a great amount of hardship during her short life yet remained positive and hardworking . it is unlikely she even realized her tremendous significance in lewis and clark ’ s journey.where do you think sacajawea gleaned such motivation ? under similar circumstances , do you think you would remain cheerful and continue to work hard ? why or why not ?
i 've gotten a lot of interest and encouragement from my family , friends , teachers and even people at the apple store , and that 's been a huge help to me . i 've gotten a lot of inspiration from steve jobs , and i 've started an app club at school , and a teacher at my school is kindly sponsoring my app club . any student at my school can come and learn how to design an app .	how did thomas bring this learning to other kids at his school ?	how did thomas bring this learning to other kids at his school ?
well , yeah , there are infinitely many of both , so i suppose there are the same number of them . but even numbers are only part of the whole numbers , all the odd numbers are left over , so there 's got to be more whole numbers than even numbers , right ? to see what my teacher was getting at , let 's first think about what it means for two sets to be the same size .	which of the numbers below which are irrational .	which of the numbers below which are irrational .
well , yeah , there are infinitely many of both , so i suppose there are the same number of them . but even numbers are only part of the whole numbers , all the odd numbers are left over , so there 's got to be more whole numbers than even numbers , right ? to see what my teacher was getting at , let 's first think about what it means for two sets to be the same size .	in the lesson we showed how to match the set of positive whole numbers to the set of positive even numbers . show how to match the set of positive whole numbers to the set of all even numbers ( positive , negative and zero ) .	in the lesson we showed how to match the set of positive whole numbers to the set of positive even numbers . show how to match the set of positive whole numbers to the set of all even numbers ( positive , negative and zero ) .
you look around for anything else you can use , but there 's nothing in the room - just the coins , the scale , and your trusty marker . how do you identify the counterfeit ? pause here if you want to figure it out for yourself !	if you know the single counterfeit coin is heavier than the others , what expression can be used to represent the maximum number of coins for which n weighs are guaranteed to reveal the counterfeit ?	if you know the single counterfeit coin is heavier than the others , what expression can be used to represent the maximum number of coins for which n weighs are guaranteed to reveal the counterfeit ?
they balance the amount of fluid in your body , detect waste in your blood , and know when to release the vitamins , minerals , and hormones you need to stay alive . say hello to your kidneys . the main role of these organs is to dispose of waste products and to turn them into urine .	what do your kidneys do for you ?	what do your kidneys do for you ?
over the past century , particle physicists have been studying matter and forces at higher and higher energies . firstly with cosmic rays , and then with particle accelerators , machines that smash together subatomic particles at great energies . the greater the energy of the accelerator , the further back in time they can effectively peek . today , things are largely made up of atoms , but hundreds of seconds after the big bang , it was too hot for electrons to join atomic nuclei to make atoms .	how do particle accelerators allow us to effectively look back in time ?	how do particle accelerators allow us to effectively look back in time ?
every four seconds , someone is diagnosed with alzheimer 's disease . it 's the most common cause of dementia , affecting over 40 million people worldwide , and yet finding a cure is something that still eludes researchers today .	which is a symptom of alzheimer ’ s disease ?	which is a symptom of alzheimer ’ s disease ?
every four seconds , someone is diagnosed with alzheimer 's disease . it 's the most common cause of dementia , affecting over 40 million people worldwide , and yet finding a cure is something that still eludes researchers today .	plaques are found in the brain in alzheimer ’ s disease . what are they made of ?	plaques are found in the brain in alzheimer ’ s disease . what are they made of ?
every four seconds , someone is diagnosed with alzheimer 's disease . it 's the most common cause of dementia , affecting over 40 million people worldwide , and yet finding a cure is something that still eludes researchers today .	which part of the brain does alzheimer ’ s disease first affect ?	which part of the brain does alzheimer ’ s disease first affect ?
every four seconds , someone is diagnosed with alzheimer 's disease . it 's the most common cause of dementia , affecting over 40 million people worldwide , and yet finding a cure is something that still eludes researchers today .	how do the symptoms of alzheimer ’ s disease progress as the diseases becomes more severe ?	how do the symptoms of alzheimer ’ s disease progress as the diseases becomes more severe ?
every four seconds , someone is diagnosed with alzheimer 's disease . it 's the most common cause of dementia , affecting over 40 million people worldwide , and yet finding a cure is something that still eludes researchers today .	what are some of the treatment strategies for alzheimer ’ s disease ?	what are some of the treatment strategies for alzheimer ’ s disease ?
in the beginning of the experiment , we have a lot of nitrogen and hydrogen , so the formation of ammonia proceeds at a high speed . but as the hydrogen and nitrogen react and get used up , the reaction slows down because there is less nitrogen and hydrogen in the container . eventually , the ammonia molecules reach a point where they start to decompose back into the nitrogen and hydrogen .	what type of bond holds together nitrogen atoms ?	what type of bond holds together nitrogen atoms ?
so , entropy favors mixing . energetics deals with attractive forces . and so , if attractive forces are present , the probability of some arrangements can be enhanced , the ones where things are attracted to each other .	energetics deals with ________ .	energetics deals with ________ .
citius , altius , fortius . three cheers for the olympics .	what was the date of the first olympics ?	what was the date of the first olympics ?
citius , altius , fortius . three cheers for the olympics .	what ancient place name underlies the word olympics ?	what ancient place name underlies the word olympics ?
citius , altius , fortius . three cheers for the olympics .	what main differences are there between the ancient and modern olympics ?	what main differences are there between the ancient and modern olympics ?
citius , altius , fortius . three cheers for the olympics .	the olympics are held only every four years . what is the history behind this schedule ?	the olympics are held only every four years . what is the history behind this schedule ?
it 's your brain -- be hygienic with it . so , of course this video is a thought germ , one constructed very intentionally over time to spread a thought germ about thought germs -- exposing their secrets -- one could say . but i tried as hard as possible , not to have , this video attack your brain through emotions , so it could use a little help spreading .	what makes an `` angry thought germ '' more likely to stick around and hold attention on the internet for longer ?	what makes an `` angry thought germ '' more likely to stick around and hold attention on the internet for longer ?
so this is my dog kieran , and take a look at her footprints . footprints provide a lot of information . not only do they tell us what kind of organism left them , they might also tell us something about when that organism was there , but also what kind of behavior , were they running or were they walking ?	compare and contrast the kind of information you can obtain using dye visualizations and particle image velocimetry .	compare and contrast the kind of information you can obtain using dye visualizations and particle image velocimetry .
these guys have really worked something out , since this leads to a highly tolerant society where fatal violence has not been observed yet . but unfortunately , bonobos are the least understood of the great apes . they live in the depths of the congolese jungle , and it has been very difficult to study them .	how can the study of apes contribute to the knowledge of ourselves ?	how can the study of apes contribute to the knowledge of ourselves ?
we 're beginning to understand a few of the problems scientists would have to solve . first of all , we need new , better ways of studying cancer . most cancer treatments are developed using cell lines grown in labs from cultures of human tumors . these cultured cells have given us critical insights about cancer genetics and biology , but they lack much of the complexity of a tumor in an actual living organism .	which is the least faithful model of human cancer ?	which is the least faithful model of human cancer ?
we 're beginning to understand a few of the problems scientists would have to solve . first of all , we need new , better ways of studying cancer . most cancer treatments are developed using cell lines grown in labs from cultures of human tumors . these cultured cells have given us critical insights about cancer genetics and biology , but they lack much of the complexity of a tumor in an actual living organism .	what cell types contribute to cancer progression and treatment response ?	what cell types contribute to cancer progression and treatment response ?
we 're beginning to understand a few of the problems scientists would have to solve . first of all , we need new , better ways of studying cancer . most cancer treatments are developed using cell lines grown in labs from cultures of human tumors . these cultured cells have given us critical insights about cancer genetics and biology , but they lack much of the complexity of a tumor in an actual living organism .	are current clinical practice , insurance coverage , and regulatory processes set up to address the complexity of human cancer ?	are current clinical practice , insurance coverage , and regulatory processes set up to address the complexity of human cancer ?
when you went to get a shot , the words , `` this wo n't hurt a bit , '' became a conditioned stimulus when they were paired with pain of the shot , the unconditioned stimulus , which was followed by your conditioned response of getting the heck out of there . classical conditioning in action . operant conditioning explains how consequences lead to changes in voluntary behavior .	in your own words , give a brief distinction between classical and operant conditioning .	in your own words , give a brief distinction between classical and operant conditioning .
there , she described victims buried alive in mass graves . later in his life , stoker went on to write fantasy , romance , adventure stories , and , in 1897 , `` dracula . '' although the book 's main villain and namesake is thought to be based on the historical figure of vlad iii dracula , or vlad the impaler , the association is mostly just that they share a name .	bram stoker was not only a writer of horror . he also wrote fantasy , adventure , and ______ .	bram stoker was not only a writer of horror . he also wrote fantasy , adventure , and ______ .
in fact , the late supreme court justice antonin scalia once calculated that due to america 's representative system of government , it could take as little as 2 % of the total population to block an amendment . of course , the simplest solution would be to make the constitution easier to amend by lowering the thresholds required for proposal and ratification . that , however , would require its own amendment . instead , historical progress has mainly come from the u.s. supreme court , which has expanded its interpretation of existing constitutional laws to keep up with the times .	in what ways , if any , would you like to see the constitution amended ?	in what ways , if any , would you like to see the constitution amended ?
and as they learned to farm crops and domesticate animals there , attitudes changed , rippling outwards towards europe and the rest of the western world . as farming took off , people might have spurned bugs as mere pests that destroyed their crops . populations grew , and the west became urbanized , weakening connections with our foraging past .	list some creative ways for changing people ’ s perception of bugs as pests .	list some creative ways for changing people ’ s perception of bugs as pests .
and as they learned to farm crops and domesticate animals there , attitudes changed , rippling outwards towards europe and the rest of the western world . as farming took off , people might have spurned bugs as mere pests that destroyed their crops . populations grew , and the west became urbanized , weakening connections with our foraging past .	what negative environmental impacts could be associated with foraging for and farming bugs ?	what negative environmental impacts could be associated with foraging for and farming bugs ?
again , we see that because there are more ways to have dispersed energy and high entropy than concentrated energy , the energy tends to spread out . that 's why if you put a hot object next to a cold one , the cold one will warm up and the hot one will cool down . but even in that example , there is an 8 % chance that the hot object would get hotter .	besides the examples provided ( hot object in contact with a cold one , air leaking out of a tire , cream mixing into coffee ) , what are other examples that illustrate the nature of entropy as time ’ s arrow ? hint : think about what a process would look like or behave if time were reversed… “ run the movie backwards. ” these reversed processes should look “ odd ” or unphysical .	besides the examples provided ( hot object in contact with a cold one , air leaking out of a tire , cream mixing into coffee ) , what are other examples that illustrate the nature of entropy as time ’ s arrow ? hint : think about what a process would look like or behave if time were reversed… “ run the movie backwards. ” these reversed processes should look “ odd ” or unphysical .
again , we see that because there are more ways to have dispersed energy and high entropy than concentrated energy , the energy tends to spread out . that 's why if you put a hot object next to a cold one , the cold one will warm up and the hot one will cool down . but even in that example , there is an 8 % chance that the hot object would get hotter .	it most likely that if you put a warm and cold object side by side , the warm object will cool down and the cold object will warm up . explain using entropy .	it most likely that if you put a warm and cold object side by side , the warm object will cool down and the cold object will warm up . explain using entropy .
in these species , the sex of the baby is not yet determined when the egg is laid , and it remains undetermined until sometime in the middle of the overall development period , when a critical time is reached . and during this time , the sex is completely determined by temperature in the nest . in painted turtles , for example , warm temperatures above the critical temperature will produce females within the eggs , and cool temperatures will produce a male .	for species with temperature dependent sex determination , like the painted turtle , global climate change is a serious concern . in what ways would you expect that female painted turtles will respond behaviorally when choosing nest sites in a warming climate ?	for species with temperature dependent sex determination , like the painted turtle , global climate change is a serious concern . in what ways would you expect that female painted turtles will respond behaviorally when choosing nest sites in a warming climate ?
sitting for long periods also temporarily deactivates lipoprotein lipase , a special enzyme in the walls of blood capillaries that breaks down fats in the blood , so when you sit , you 're not burning fat nearly as well as when you move around . what effect does all of this stasis have on the brain ? most of the time , you probably sit down to use your brain , but ironically , lengthy periods of sitting actually run counter to this goal .	you are studying for a final exam and have been sitting all day . what effect could this have on your ability to learn ?	you are studying for a final exam and have been sitting all day . what effect could this have on your ability to learn ?
mosquitoes have been around for over a hundred million years and over that time have coevolved with all sorts of species , including our own . there are actually thousands of species of mosquitos in the world , but they all share one insidious quality : they suck blood , and they 're really , really good at sucking blood . here 's how they do it .	once a mosquito locates a blood vessel , how much blood can it consume ?	once a mosquito locates a blood vessel , how much blood can it consume ?
but in humans and a few other species , the placenta actually penetrates right into the mother 's circulatory system to directly access her blood stream . through its placenta , the fetus pumps the mother 's arteries with hormones that keep them open to provide a permanent flow of nutrient-rich blood . a fetus with such unrestricted access can manufacture hormones to increase the mother 's blood sugar , dilate her arteries , and inflate her blood pressure . most mammal mothers can expel or reabsorb embryos if required , but in humans , once the fetus is connected to the blood supply , severing that connection can result in hemorrhage .	the hormones the fetus pumps into the mother 's blood can :	the hormones the fetus pumps into the mother 's blood can :
that means if you zoomed out by a factor of ten 26 times , you 'd be at the scale of the universe . but to reach the minimum length scale , known as the planck length , you would need to zoom in 35 times . as physicist richard feynman once said , `` there 's plenty of room at the bottom . ''	from the human scale , how many times do we need to zoom in to reach the minimum scale ?	from the human scale , how many times do we need to zoom in to reach the minimum scale ?
we know that learning by being an active researcher is the best way to learn . imagine being in my lab and trying to discover how geckos stick . `` here is one of our subjects . this is a crested gecko .	what did anne , one of robert full 's graduate students , discover about spiders ?	what did anne , one of robert full 's graduate students , discover about spiders ?
the special , accordion-like blubber layer that extends from its snout to its belly button enables the whale to engulf large quantities of prey-laden water . with each giant gulp , the whale takes in 125 % of its body weight in water and krill . the whale must then expel the water while retaining the yummy krill .	what percentage of body weight does the whale take in with each gulp , and how is this possible ?	what percentage of body weight does the whale take in with each gulp , and how is this possible ?
therefore , this allowed other people , non-farmers , to do other things such as make tools , craft pottery , and build homes . farming and food surpluses led to the division of labor . this is still thousands of years ago , so life was n't easy .	what was one of the most important factors as a result of farming that led to the division of labor ?	what was one of the most important factors as a result of farming that led to the division of labor ?
therefore , this allowed other people , non-farmers , to do other things such as make tools , craft pottery , and build homes . farming and food surpluses led to the division of labor . this is still thousands of years ago , so life was n't easy .	too much of anything may not be good for you but not when it came to food in the neolithic period . growing your own food was more reliable than hunting and gathering and often led to more food than you needed . describe the effect food surpluses had the on early farming settlements .	too much of anything may not be good for you but not when it came to food in the neolithic period . growing your own food was more reliable than hunting and gathering and often led to more food than you needed . describe the effect food surpluses had the on early farming settlements .
predators want to eat them , immune systems seek to destroy them , and there are physical dangers , too , like running out of water and drying up . however , in a biofilm , the extracellular matrix shields microbes from external threats . biofilms also enable interactions between individual cells .	a biofilm can be defined as a community of microbes that :	a biofilm can be defined as a community of microbes that :
predators want to eat them , immune systems seek to destroy them , and there are physical dangers , too , like running out of water and drying up . however , in a biofilm , the extracellular matrix shields microbes from external threats . biofilms also enable interactions between individual cells .	which of these activities can occur inside biofilm communities ?	which of these activities can occur inside biofilm communities ?
predators want to eat them , immune systems seek to destroy them , and there are physical dangers , too , like running out of water and drying up . however , in a biofilm , the extracellular matrix shields microbes from external threats . biofilms also enable interactions between individual cells .	what best describes the relationship between microbes and humans ?	what best describes the relationship between microbes and humans ?
banneker included a letter imploring jefferson to `` embrace every opportunity to eradicate that train of absurd and false ideas and opinions '' that caused prejudice against black people . jefferson read the almanac and wrote back in praise of banneker 's work . banneker 's correspondence with the future president is now considered to be one of the first documented examples of a civil rights protest letter in america .	what important change did banneker ’ s scientific almanac cause both in his life and in the lives of black slaves ?	what important change did banneker ’ s scientific almanac cause both in his life and in the lives of black slaves ?
newton 's second law of motion -- net force equals mass times acceleration -- tells us that if the acceleration equals zero , the net force must equal zero . which means that the force of gravity pulling you down must be equal to the force of the scale pushing you up . now let 's suppose you 're standing on that scale in an elevator .	what is another example of something that affects how our weight appears on a scale because of the force of gravity and the normal force ?	what is another example of something that affects how our weight appears on a scale because of the force of gravity and the normal force ?
in some societies , slaves could be part of a master 's family , own land , and even rise to positions of power . but when white captains came offering manufactured goods , weapons , and rum for slaves , african kings and merchants had little reason to hesitate . they viewed the people they sold not as fellow africans but criminals , debtors , or prisoners of war from rival tribes . by selling them , kings enriched their own realms , and strengthened them against neighboring enemies .	tribalism in africa led to intense competition and warfare amongst tribes . prisoners were sold into slavery in exchanged for manufactured goods , weapons , and rum . which one of these goods was most valuable to tribes that looked to expand their power and influence in the region ?	tribalism in africa led to intense competition and warfare amongst tribes . prisoners were sold into slavery in exchanged for manufactured goods , weapons , and rum . which one of these goods was most valuable to tribes that looked to expand their power and influence in the region ?
because poetry is so often musical and rhythmic , it has a way of sticking in our heads , like i memorized it almost by accident . frost thought that the poem was exploring how people experience choice making rather than offering advice , but precisely because it sounds good hank , it seems like good advice . and even though i know it is n't good advice , at least not consistently , i suspect that the next time i am facing a fork in the road or fork in the river , those iambic feet will wander back into my mind .	what did frost think the poem was exploring ?	what did frost think the poem was exploring ?
it may have to do with the circulation of water droplets and ice particles within them . regardless , the charge imbalance is neutralized by being released towards another body , such as a building , the earth , or another cloud in a giant spark that we know as lightning . and just as your fingers can be zapped over and over in the same spot , you better believe that lightning can strike the same place more than once .	what is the difference between a spark and lightning ?	what is the difference between a spark and lightning ?
here 's where the ned-style nicknames come in . old english was more like german than our english is now , and just as in german , my is mein , in old english , my was meen . you would say meen book , actually boke in old english , or meen cat .	newts – little lizards – were called something else in earlier english . what was it ?	newts – little lizards – were called something else in earlier english . what was it ?
and yes , there is an elephant band . but perhaps the most amazing thing about elephants is a capacity even more important than cleverness : their sense of empathy , altruism , and justice . elephants are the only non-human animals to mourn their dead , performing burial rituals and returning to visit graves .	what are some ways in which elephants show empathy and a sense of justice ?	what are some ways in which elephants show empathy and a sense of justice ?
as the temperature increases , gases move away from one another , and the volume increases as well . finally , if you add gas to a closed container , that container 's volume will expand . but be careful not to add too much , because otherwise you could end up with a burst balloon .	how does the pressure of a container change as the volume is changed ?	how does the pressure of a container change as the volume is changed ?
as the temperature increases , gases move away from one another , and the volume increases as well . finally , if you add gas to a closed container , that container 's volume will expand . but be careful not to add too much , because otherwise you could end up with a burst balloon .	if a gas is cooled , how does the volume change ?	if a gas is cooled , how does the volume change ?
as the temperature increases , gases move away from one another , and the volume increases as well . finally , if you add gas to a closed container , that container 's volume will expand . but be careful not to add too much , because otherwise you could end up with a burst balloon .	if you have a 2.0l container of oxygen and a separate 2.0l container of nitrogen at the same temperature , and you compress them both to a volume of 1.0l , what can you expect ?	if you have a 2.0l container of oxygen and a separate 2.0l container of nitrogen at the same temperature , and you compress them both to a volume of 1.0l , what can you expect ?
now , i do n't have a lot of time , but i want to get you started on your own invention project , maybe . so what i 'm going to do live and real-time and something that scares me , is , because it is live and real-time , is i 'm going to make an audio speaker out of stuff that i found in my kitchen on the night before i came to new york . okay .	what does gurstelle build in real time ?	what does gurstelle build in real time ?
this helps rescue that follicle , now called the corpus luteum , from degenerating as it normally would do in that stage of the menstrual cycle . the corpus luteum is responsible for producing the progesterone required to maintain the pregnancy until six to seven weeks of gestation , when the placenta develops and takes over , until the baby is born approximately 40 weeks later . now , how do you make a baby in a lab ?	the _____ is responsible for producing progesterone , the hormone that maintains a pregnancy .	the _____ is responsible for producing progesterone , the hormone that maintains a pregnancy .
author robert louis stevenson then introduced the idea of a logical left hemisphere competing with an emotional right hemisphere represented by his characters dr. jekyll and mr. hyde . but this idea did n't hold up when doctors and scientists examined patients who were missing a hemisphere or had their two hemispheres separated . these patients showed a complete range of behaviors , both logical and creative .	when patients who had both hemispheres of their brains separated were tested , what was the result ?	when patients who had both hemispheres of their brains separated were tested , what was the result ?
placebos may even reduce levels of stress hormones , like adrenaline , which can slow the harmful effects of an ailment . so should n't we celebrate the placebo 's bizarre benefits ? not necessarily . if somebody believes a fake treatment has cured them , they may miss out on drugs or therapies that are proven to work .	can you explain why the placebo effect isn ’ t necessarily something we should celebrate ? give three reasons .	can you explain why the placebo effect isn ’ t necessarily something we should celebrate ? give three reasons .
and so , to protect moons of saturn that could have conditions suitable for life , a spectacular end has been planned for this long-lived traveler from earth . cassini 's grand finale 5 - 4 - 3 - 2 - 1 [ rockets roar ] and liftoff of the cassini spacecraft on a billion-mile trek to saturn . we have cleared the tower .	what passenger did cassini have on board ? why was it significant ?	what passenger did cassini have on board ? why was it significant ?
but i know that you the cameraman have also used… hello . …used neodymium , because neodymium is element number 60 and the cameraman ’ s future mother-in-law was 60 a few days ago and so we provided a sample of neodymium , element 60 , for him to present to her as a birthday present . happy birthday marion !	which birthday did the cameraman 's future mother-in-law celebrate a few days before the recording ? or in other words , how many electrons does an atom of neodymium have orbiting around its nucleus ?	which birthday did the cameraman 's future mother-in-law celebrate a few days before the recording ? or in other words , how many electrons does an atom of neodymium have orbiting around its nucleus ?
i have two primary personalities that have been in conflict and conversation within me since i was a little girl . i call them `` the mystic '' and `` the warrior . '' i was born into a family of politically active , intellectual atheists .	describe the two sides of human nature ( the mystic and the warrior ) that lesser describes in her talk .	describe the two sides of human nature ( the mystic and the warrior ) that lesser describes in her talk .
so here we have a sample of vanadium . so vanadium is used to do catalysis , it is used for a whole range of different things .	where in the forest , as pete explained to us , can we find vanadium ?	where in the forest , as pete explained to us , can we find vanadium ?
so here we have a sample of vanadium . so vanadium is used to do catalysis , it is used for a whole range of different things .	impurities of vanadium and its neighbor , chromium , are responsible for the green color of a beautiful green gemstone . what is its name ?	impurities of vanadium and its neighbor , chromium , are responsible for the green color of a beautiful green gemstone . what is its name ?
it was just used in the components which they were using in the coils to get the temperature down . it ’ s also used in welder ’ s goggles because it ’ s quite good at filtering out harmful types of light to the human eye , so you find it ’ s in the goggle and it helps the welder be able to see what he ’ s doing . it ’ s also been used in a silicate which is being used to lower the speed of light down to a mere 300 metres per second , which is still pretty fast but not very fast compared to the normal speed of light .	why is praseodymium used in welder 's goggles ?	why is praseodymium used in welder 's goggles ?
but in cases where we have reason to expect some natural variance , we should also expect varied distribution . if you toss a coin one hundred times , you would expect to get heads somewhere around 50 % of the time . but if your results started to approach 100 % heads , you 'd suspect that something was wrong , not with your individual flips , but with the coin itself .	this time there ’ s a lineup of nine red apples and a rubber ball about the same size and color as the apples in the room . you are not told how many apples there are and you send your friends to find out for you . this time each person is only allowed to look at the lineup for 10 seconds through the keyhole of the locked room . one hundred friends independently agree on the same number of apples . what is the likelihood you have been given the correct number ?	this time there ’ s a lineup of nine red apples and a rubber ball about the same size and color as the apples in the room . you are not told how many apples there are and you send your friends to find out for you . this time each person is only allowed to look at the lineup for 10 seconds through the keyhole of the locked room . one hundred friends independently agree on the same number of apples . what is the likelihood you have been given the correct number ?
but in cases where we have reason to expect some natural variance , we should also expect varied distribution . if you toss a coin one hundred times , you would expect to get heads somewhere around 50 % of the time . but if your results started to approach 100 % heads , you 'd suspect that something was wrong , not with your individual flips , but with the coin itself .	you toss a coin 20 times and every time it turns up heads . it could be your lucky day , but then maybe not . brainstorm as many possible crazy scenarios that could have led to 20 heads in a row . which is the least likely scenario ?	you toss a coin 20 times and every time it turns up heads . it could be your lucky day , but then maybe not . brainstorm as many possible crazy scenarios that could have led to 20 heads in a row . which is the least likely scenario ?
but in cases where we have reason to expect some natural variance , we should also expect varied distribution . if you toss a coin one hundred times , you would expect to get heads somewhere around 50 % of the time . but if your results started to approach 100 % heads , you 'd suspect that something was wrong , not with your individual flips , but with the coin itself .	there is a lineup of nine bananas and one apple in an otherwise empty room . you know there are ten fruits in the room but need to know how many bananas there are . you are not allowed to look . but you are allowed to send in trusted friends to check for you . they enter the room on different days and are prevented from talking to each other . one hundred friends report back to you , one by one , and unanimously tell you there are nine bananas and one apple . what is the likelihood that there are really nine bananas in the room ?	there is a lineup of nine bananas and one apple in an otherwise empty room . you know there are ten fruits in the room but need to know how many bananas there are . you are not allowed to look . but you are allowed to send in trusted friends to check for you . they enter the room on different days and are prevented from talking to each other . one hundred friends report back to you , one by one , and unanimously tell you there are nine bananas and one apple . what is the likelihood that there are really nine bananas in the room ?
( lightning ) what she really wanted was to bring her home here . the fractals spread everywhere . most of them the same no matter how deep you looked at them , like dora 's mugshot .	which of these is a characteristic of fractals ?	which of these is a characteristic of fractals ?
( lightning ) what she really wanted was to bring her home here . the fractals spread everywhere . most of them the same no matter how deep you looked at them , like dora 's mugshot .	which of these are fractals ?	which of these are fractals ?
( lightning ) what she really wanted was to bring her home here . the fractals spread everywhere . most of them the same no matter how deep you looked at them , like dora 's mugshot .	fractals can be found in nature , from the pattern of arteries that pump blood through your body to the spiral arms of the milky way galaxy . what other natural fractals can you think of ?	fractals can be found in nature , from the pattern of arteries that pump blood through your body to the spiral arms of the milky way galaxy . what other natural fractals can you think of ?
but that 's not all . the tomato is also releasing compounds that signal nearby tomato plants to release their own insect repellent . plants are constantly under attack . they face threats ranging from microscopic fungi and bacteria , small herbivores , like aphids , caterpillars , and grasshoppers , up to large herbivores , like tortoises , koalas , and elephants .	plants can also use other living organisms to set-up an efficient defense . how does this alliance work ?	plants can also use other living organisms to set-up an efficient defense . how does this alliance work ?
astronomers have discovered thousands of planets orbiting stars other than the sun . they come in all sizes , at different orbital distances from their stars .	thousands of planets have already been discovered orbiting stars other than the sun . but this is only a tiny fraction of the planets that astronomers think actually exist . what are some of the reasons that astronomers haven ’ t found more planets yet ?	thousands of planets have already been discovered orbiting stars other than the sun . but this is only a tiny fraction of the planets that astronomers think actually exist . what are some of the reasons that astronomers haven ’ t found more planets yet ?
but dna can get damaged after replication , too . lots of different molecules can cause chemical changes to nucleotides . some of these come from environmental exposure , like certain compounds in tobacco smoke . but others are molecules that are found in cells naturally , like hydrogen peroxide .	tobacco smoke can cause :	tobacco smoke can cause :
your brain on food if you sucked all of the moisture out of your brain and broke it down to its constituent nutritional content , what would it look like ? most of the weight of your dehydrated brain would come from fats , also known as lipids .	what makes up the nutritional content of your brain ?	what makes up the nutritional content of your brain ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar the brain is the center of all of our thoughts , dreams , emotions , and memories . it 's what makes us who we are .	if the brain is the center of our emotions , memories , and dreams , explain what would happen if a brain transplant were possible .	if the brain is the center of our emotions , memories , and dreams , explain what would happen if a brain transplant were possible .
medical researchers are now studying what causes fibroblast cells to secrete excessive amounts of collagen and how we can recruit the body 's other cells in regenerating and repopulating the damaged tissue . by learning how to better control wound healing and the formation of scar tissue , we can utilize the multi-billion-dollar budgets currently used to address the aftermath of wounding in a much more efficient manner , and help millions of people live better and healthier lives . but until then , at least some of our scars can help us remember to avoid the sorts of things that cause them .	which of the following is not an outcome of scar formation in humans ?	which of the following is not an outcome of scar formation in humans ?
some of it was painting by artists like frank stella and ellsworth kelly , but most of it was sculpture by artists like donald judd , carl andre , dan flavin , anne truitt , robert morris , tony smith , ronald bladen , and sol lewitt . art critics called it abc art , object art , primary structures , and cool art , but the term minimalism prevailed . these artists never called their art minimalist , by the way , nor did they like the term , or the implication that the work was so reductive that it was minimally art .	what decade sparked the minimalist art movement ?	what decade sparked the minimalist art movement ?
some of it was painting by artists like frank stella and ellsworth kelly , but most of it was sculpture by artists like donald judd , carl andre , dan flavin , anne truitt , robert morris , tony smith , ronald bladen , and sol lewitt . art critics called it abc art , object art , primary structures , and cool art , but the term minimalism prevailed . these artists never called their art minimalist , by the way , nor did they like the term , or the implication that the work was so reductive that it was minimally art .	what were some other contemporary terms for minimalist abstract art ?	what were some other contemporary terms for minimalist abstract art ?
some of it was painting by artists like frank stella and ellsworth kelly , but most of it was sculpture by artists like donald judd , carl andre , dan flavin , anne truitt , robert morris , tony smith , ronald bladen , and sol lewitt . art critics called it abc art , object art , primary structures , and cool art , but the term minimalism prevailed . these artists never called their art minimalist , by the way , nor did they like the term , or the implication that the work was so reductive that it was minimally art .	what are other cultural sectors that have been influenced by the abstract minimalist art movement ? please give examples .	what are other cultural sectors that have been influenced by the abstract minimalist art movement ? please give examples .
and second , they have to hit each other hard enough , in other words , with enough energy . now you 're probably thinking that a reaction just happens in one direction and that 's it . sometimes that 's true .	what is/are the requirement ( s ) for a collision to result in a reaction ?	what is/are the requirement ( s ) for a collision to result in a reaction ?
and second , they have to hit each other hard enough , in other words , with enough energy . now you 're probably thinking that a reaction just happens in one direction and that 's it . sometimes that 's true .	at the very beginning of a reversible reaction , what is the rate of the reverse reaction ?	at the very beginning of a reversible reaction , what is the rate of the reverse reaction ?
and second , they have to hit each other hard enough , in other words , with enough energy . now you 're probably thinking that a reaction just happens in one direction and that 's it . sometimes that 's true .	explain why the rate of the reverse reaction must be zero at the very , very beginning of a reversible reaction . explain why the rate of the reverse reaction increases as the reaction proceeds .	explain why the rate of the reverse reaction must be zero at the very , very beginning of a reversible reaction . explain why the rate of the reverse reaction increases as the reaction proceeds .
a school can pick which test to follow . proportionality means that girls should receive the same percentage of athletic opportunities as the percentage of girls in the student body . so , if 51 % of students are girls , then girls should have approximately 51 % of the opportunities to play sports . the second test , progress , requires schools to make up for the days when girls had fewer opportunities by adding new sports for girls on a regular basis .	adams high school has an equal number of female and male students . girls receive forty percent of the athletic opportunities and boys receive sixty percent of athletic opportunities . due to financial constraints , ahs decides to cut athletic opportunities to save money and eliminates both the boys ’ soccer team and the girls ’ soccer team . do you think that this decision complies with title ix ? why or why not ?	adams high school has an equal number of female and male students . girls receive forty percent of the athletic opportunities and boys receive sixty percent of athletic opportunities . due to financial constraints , ahs decides to cut athletic opportunities to save money and eliminates both the boys ’ soccer team and the girls ’ soccer team . do you think that this decision complies with title ix ? why or why not ?
well , there are two crucial thinking steps that can lead us in the right direction : practicing insight and acknowledging complexity . insight is the ability to arrive at an intuitive understanding of a big idea using only small clues to get there . if you 're practicing insight , you 'll able to use observations about character behavior to figure out their true emotions and motivations . pay attention to little things because they add up to what is really meaningful .	think about the most recent literary text you ’ ve studied . give some examples of small details that you noticed about one of the characters . then , apply your powers of insight to come to some conclusions about that character ’ s motivations based on those clues .	think about the most recent literary text you ’ ve studied . give some examples of small details that you noticed about one of the characters . then , apply your powers of insight to come to some conclusions about that character ’ s motivations based on those clues .
they learned to expect food at the sound of a bell . you see , under normal conditions , the sight and smell of food causes a dog to salivate . we call the food an unconditioned stimulus , and we call salivation the unconditioned response . nobody trains a dog to salivate over some steak . however , when we pair an unconditioned stimulus like food with something that was previously neutral , like the sound of a bell , that neutral stimulus becomes a conditioned stimulus .	in pavlov 's famous experiment , what do we call the food that makes the dog salivate ?	in pavlov 's famous experiment , what do we call the food that makes the dog salivate ?
tubes failed every other day , and in one hour , it consumed the amount of electricity used by 15 homes in a day . the solution was the transistor . instead of electrodes , it uses a semiconductor , like silicon treated with different elements to create an electron-emitting n-type , and an electron absorbing p-type .	what material is used to fabricate a transistor ?	what material is used to fabricate a transistor ?
tubes failed every other day , and in one hour , it consumed the amount of electricity used by 15 homes in a day . the solution was the transistor . instead of electrodes , it uses a semiconductor , like silicon treated with different elements to create an electron-emitting n-type , and an electron absorbing p-type .	when does a transistor ‘ conduct ’ ?	when does a transistor ‘ conduct ’ ?
tubes failed every other day , and in one hour , it consumed the amount of electricity used by 15 homes in a day . the solution was the transistor . instead of electrodes , it uses a semiconductor , like silicon treated with different elements to create an electron-emitting n-type , and an electron absorbing p-type .	explain the construction of a transistor and how it switches currents . how does the transistor overcome the inefficiencies of the vacuum tube ?	explain the construction of a transistor and how it switches currents . how does the transistor overcome the inefficiencies of the vacuum tube ?
you look like a feathery angel or a morose faun . today , you look at these two words , `` good '' and `` bad , '' examine them closely . because behind their seemingly unassuming visages reside two deceitful offerings that smother the truth .	the english language has an abundant amount of illustrative words . there are also many words that fail to interpret the true circumstances of the situation . identify five terms from the english language that produce similarly banal effects to good and bad . list these terms in one column . in the next column , produce two superior replacements of your own . share and discuss these with the class to develop a larger list of terms to avoid in your own written and oral projects .	the english language has an abundant amount of illustrative words . there are also many words that fail to interpret the true circumstances of the situation . identify five terms from the english language that produce similarly banal effects to good and bad . list these terms in one column . in the next column , produce two superior replacements of your own . share and discuss these with the class to develop a larger list of terms to avoid in your own written and oral projects .
you look like a feathery angel or a morose faun . today , you look at these two words , `` good '' and `` bad , '' examine them closely . because behind their seemingly unassuming visages reside two deceitful offerings that smother the truth .	brainstorm with your classmates other ways to improve your writing . besides ineffective , bland terms , examine clichés that detract from your written efforts . discuss ways you have seen these used and ways in which you would improve the expressions .	brainstorm with your classmates other ways to improve your writing . besides ineffective , bland terms , examine clichés that detract from your written efforts . discuss ways you have seen these used and ways in which you would improve the expressions .
what 's your next move ? one option is a process called permineralization . while all your soft parts decay away , your bones get saturated with mineral-rich waters .	which of the following fossils an example of permineralization ?	which of the following fossils an example of permineralization ?
what 's your next move ? one option is a process called permineralization . while all your soft parts decay away , your bones get saturated with mineral-rich waters .	which of the following process are not likely to ruin your chances of becoming a fossil ?	which of the following process are not likely to ruin your chances of becoming a fossil ?
well the key is the wing must deflect air downwards this can be achieved using asymmetric or cambered air foils or by increasing the angle of attack air under the wing is deflected down and by the coanda effect air above the wing is guided along its surface and down as well since the air is slowed and deflected down by the wing , it pushes the wing up and back . lift , and drag . this is in accordance with newton 's third law of motion but hang on , if you can explain lift only using the deflection of air and newton 's laws , then the bernoulli explanation must be completely wrong well , no , air over the top of the wing does go faster than air beneath , creating a pressure difference that generates lift then this newtonian explanation is unnecessary rubbish and the original explanation was right !	which of these parts of the common explanation of lift is wrong ?	which of these parts of the common explanation of lift is wrong ?
or it can be later added back to the liquid in varying proportions to yield different fat content milks . full fat milk , sometimes referred to as whole milk , has 3.25 % butterfat added compared to 1-2 % for low and reduced fat milk , and less than half a percent for skim milk . to stop reseparation of the fat from the water , or creaming , the mixture undergoes the high-energy pressurized process of homogenization .	____ ’ s milk is the most widely drank milk throughout the world .	____ ’ s milk is the most widely drank milk throughout the world .
or it can be later added back to the liquid in varying proportions to yield different fat content milks . full fat milk , sometimes referred to as whole milk , has 3.25 % butterfat added compared to 1-2 % for low and reduced fat milk , and less than half a percent for skim milk . to stop reseparation of the fat from the water , or creaming , the mixture undergoes the high-energy pressurized process of homogenization .	the main component of milk is water , where the other main components in milk are ____ .	the main component of milk is water , where the other main components in milk are ____ .
or it can be later added back to the liquid in varying proportions to yield different fat content milks . full fat milk , sometimes referred to as whole milk , has 3.25 % butterfat added compared to 1-2 % for low and reduced fat milk , and less than half a percent for skim milk . to stop reseparation of the fat from the water , or creaming , the mixture undergoes the high-energy pressurized process of homogenization .	milk is produced by all mammals , and the composition of the milk that each mammal produces varies . for example , reindeer ’ s milk has 20 % fat in comparison to the 5 % fat in cow ’ s milk . what are the reasons for these differences ?	milk is produced by all mammals , and the composition of the milk that each mammal produces varies . for example , reindeer ’ s milk has 20 % fat in comparison to the 5 % fat in cow ’ s milk . what are the reasons for these differences ?
or it can be later added back to the liquid in varying proportions to yield different fat content milks . full fat milk , sometimes referred to as whole milk , has 3.25 % butterfat added compared to 1-2 % for low and reduced fat milk , and less than half a percent for skim milk . to stop reseparation of the fat from the water , or creaming , the mixture undergoes the high-energy pressurized process of homogenization .	milk is best produced in regions with good grassland , whereas more arid regions struggle to produce milk at an appreciable level . what is one key innovation which allowed for the distribution of milk to these regions ?	milk is best produced in regions with good grassland , whereas more arid regions struggle to produce milk at an appreciable level . what is one key innovation which allowed for the distribution of milk to these regions ?
we can look at who the people were , what they said , how old they are , where they live , who follows them , and so on , and so on , and so on . so , the times creates about 6,500 pieces of content every month , and we can model every single one of the conversations that happen around them . and they look somewhat different .	about how much content does the new york times create every month ?	about how much content does the new york times create every month ?
on the other hand , people with blood type o do not produce either antigen , which makes them universal donors , but will cause their immune system to make antibodies that reject any other blood type . unfortunately , matching donors and recipients is a bit more complicated due to additional antigen systems , particular the rh factor , named after the rhesus monkeys in which it was first isolated . rh+ or rh- refers to the presence or absence of the d antigen of the rh blood group system . and in addition to impeding some blood transfusions , it can cause severe complications in pregnancy .	what is rh factor ?	what is rh factor ?
and because air pressure correlates to temperature and rapid shifts in it can contribute to hurricanes , tornadoes and other extreme weather events , a barometer is one of the most essential tools for weather forecasters and scientists alike . how does a barometer work , and how was it invented ? well , it took awhile .	explain why denser liquids work better in compact barometers .	explain why denser liquids work better in compact barometers .
for biologists , this is strong evidence that we 're more closely related to starfish than we are , to say , corals , or other animals that do n't exhibit bilateral symmetry at any stage in their development . one of the most fascinating and important problems in biology is reconstructing the tree of life , discovering when and how the different branches diverged . thinking about something as simple as body symmetry can help us dig far into our evolutionary past and understand where we , as a species , have come from .	scientists are certain they know how to construct the tree of life , and they are confident they know when each branch diverged .	scientists are certain they know how to construct the tree of life , and they are confident they know when each branch diverged .
let 's walk through three of today 's more prevalent theories , using the same restaurant setting for each . first up is dual processing . we 'll need an action .	how is the dual processing theory different than the divided attention theory ?	how is the dual processing theory different than the divided attention theory ?
how food is prepared also matters . minimally processed , fresh foods generally have more fiber and provide better fuel . so lightly steamed , sautéed , or raw vegetables are typically more beneficial than fried dishes .	all of the following foods are good sources of fiber except :	all of the following foods are good sources of fiber except :
with the growing interest in technologies and research , that could possibly bring animals and plants back from being , well , extinct . one of the candidates high on that list is the woolly mammoth . they 're the closest relatives to our living asian elephants today , and only widely disappeared about 10,000 years ago . with some isolated populations hanging on until about 4,700 years ago .	the woolly mammoth went extinct 10,000 years ago . what else was happening at this same time ?	the woolly mammoth went extinct 10,000 years ago . what else was happening at this same time ?
the interior would overtake the membrane , leaving too little surface area for things to quickly move in and out of the cell . a huge cell would back up with waste and eventually die and disintegrate . there 's another plus to having multitudes of smaller cells , too .	think back to the room described in the question above . how small would you estimate that the single doorway into the room could get , yet everyone in the room still survive for a week ? the size of a book ? of a quarter ? of a soda straw ?	think back to the room described in the question above . how small would you estimate that the single doorway into the room could get , yet everyone in the room still survive for a week ? the size of a book ? of a quarter ? of a soda straw ?
eventually , their arms stretched out into wings . only then , perhaps 50 million years after the first wiry feathers evolved , did feathers lift those dinosaurs into the sky .	approximately how long did it take from the time the first feather evolved until the first animal took flight ?	approximately how long did it take from the time the first feather evolved until the first animal took flight ?
what could this trait be for ? what if these wrinkles functioned like rain treads ? think about car tires .	explain why the “ rain tread ” hypothesis predicts that peculiar pattern of wrinkles . include the issue of whether fingertips are “ basins ” or “ promontories ” .	explain why the “ rain tread ” hypothesis predicts that peculiar pattern of wrinkles . include the issue of whether fingertips are “ basins ” or “ promontories ” .
what could this trait be for ? what if these wrinkles functioned like rain treads ? think about car tires .	although the “ rain tread ” hypothesis predicts both ( i ) the shapes of the wrinkles and ( ii ) the results of the behavioral experiment , which of these successful predictions provides greater support for the hypothesis ?	although the “ rain tread ” hypothesis predicts both ( i ) the shapes of the wrinkles and ( ii ) the results of the behavioral experiment , which of these successful predictions provides greater support for the hypothesis ?
if we have a very small aperture , we 'll have less light but a deeper depth of field . for portraits , it can be nice to have a sharp figure separate from a somewhat blurry background so i would suggest a large aperture . aperture is measured in f-stops .	if we want to get a sharp figure separate from a blurry background we should choose	if we want to get a sharp figure separate from a blurry background we should choose
heuristics are also terrible at dealing with numbers in general . in one example , students were split into two groups . the first group was asked whether mahatma gandhi died before or after age 9 , while the second was asked whether he died before or after age 140 .	the difficulty in considering the real value of a product once its price its known , is an example of :	the difficulty in considering the real value of a product once its price its known , is an example of :
so , hydrogen bonds form much more frequently than they break and beautiful structures start to emerge from the chaos . this is what solid water , ice , looks like on the molecular level . notice that the ordered , hexagonal structure is less dense than the disordered structure of liquid water . and you know that if an object is less dense than the fluid it 's in , it will float .	how many “ sides ” does the ice structure have ?	how many “ sides ” does the ice structure have ?
and just by measuring the plants , we can actually predict very well what 's going to happen in the top predator three steps away in the food web . but what 's interesting is that even the densest aggregations of their prey are n't enough for spinner dolphins to make it . it 's a pretty tough life there in the ocean .	how do the spinner dolphins create an easier way to eat ?	how do the spinner dolphins create an easier way to eat ?
and the more layers , the greater the insulation around the axon chains , forming a sort of superhighway for information connecting your brain to your muscles . so while many athletes and performers attribute their successes to muscle memory , muscles themselves do n't really have memory . rather , it may be the myelination of neural pathways that gives these athletes and performers their edge with faster and more efficient neural pathways .	in actuality , muscle memory is :	in actuality , muscle memory is :
music is written on five parallel lines that go across the page . these five lines are called a staff , and a staff operates on two axes : up and down and left to right . the up-and-down axis tells the performer the pitch of the note or what note to play , and the left-to-right axis tells the performer the rhythm of the note or when to play it . let 's start with pitch .	the left/right axis on a staff tells a performer :	the left/right axis on a staff tells a performer :
fires are frequent and the smell of ash and smoke in the morning is not uncommon . lucius , who awoke at dawn , has family duties to perform today . ( cheering ) his 15-year-old brother is coming of age . half the children in ancient rome die before they reach adulthood , so this is a particularly important milestone . lucius watches his brother stand in his new toga before the household shrine with its protective deities , as he places his bulla , a protective amulet , in the shrine with a prayer of thanks .	coming of age was a major event in the life of a child in ancient rome . why do you think there was such an incredible ceremony to celebrate adulthood ? what similar celebrations exist today ?	coming of age was a major event in the life of a child in ancient rome . why do you think there was such an incredible ceremony to celebrate adulthood ? what similar celebrations exist today ?
could we fly through them to find out ? and what about life as we do n't know it , using a liquid other than water ? maybe we are the crazy creatures living in an unusual and extreme environment .	we know life on earth depends on water , but do you think extraterrestrial life exists that does n't depend on water for survival ?	we know life on earth depends on water , but do you think extraterrestrial life exists that does n't depend on water for survival ?
occasionally , though , the sequence is more orderly . when four consecutive lunar eclipses are all total , the series is called a tetrad . 'during the 21st century , there are 9 sets of tetrads , so i would describe tetrads as a frequent occurrence in the current pattern of lunar eclipses , ' says espenak .	how many consecutive lunar eclipses are there in a lunar eclipse tetrad ?	how many consecutive lunar eclipses are there in a lunar eclipse tetrad ?
they play a large part in making the planet red by distributing rusted iron particles across the surface and into the air . thanks to the low gravity and lack of moisture , these dust storms can last for months and cover the planet . so , you might want to build your home as high as possible .	dust storms last longer on mars than on earth . what is the most important reason for this ?	dust storms last longer on mars than on earth . what is the most important reason for this ?
the year was 1816 . europe and north america had just been through a devastating series of wars , and a slow recovery seemed to be underway , but nature had other plans .	what do you think were the main aspects of the events of 1816 that made people suspect a supernatural apocalypse ?	what do you think were the main aspects of the events of 1816 that made people suspect a supernatural apocalypse ?
let 's break that down . first of all , why is it so important to know what time it is on a satellite when location is what we 're concerned about ? the first thing your phone needs to determine is how far it is from a satellite .	which of the following equations were discussed as important for smartphone location ?	which of the following equations were discussed as important for smartphone location ?
and odda mathr , the odd man , was used to describe the unpaired man whose vote could break a tie . though the english never called a triangle odd , they did borrow the odd number and the odd man . and finally , in the 16th century , the notion of the odd man out gave rise to our modern meaning peculiar .	odd can also be used to describe a number that is somewhat higher than the given approximation – as in , for example , 50-odd years . how does this definition relate to the first ?	odd can also be used to describe a number that is somewhat higher than the given approximation – as in , for example , 50-odd years . how does this definition relate to the first ?
and odda mathr , the odd man , was used to describe the unpaired man whose vote could break a tie . though the english never called a triangle odd , they did borrow the odd number and the odd man . and finally , in the 16th century , the notion of the odd man out gave rise to our modern meaning peculiar .	is zero an even number or an odd number ?	is zero an even number or an odd number ?
one explanation is the ebbinghaus illusion , where two identical objects look different because of the relative size of the objects they 're surrounded by . here the two center circles are actually the same size . maybe the moon looks bigger near the horizon because it 's next to tiny trees , houses , and towers in the distance .	what are two experiments that you can perform to test the explanations offered in this video ?	what are two experiments that you can perform to test the explanations offered in this video ?
so how did this misleading idea come about , and what does it get wrong ? it 's true that the brain has a right and a left side . this is most apparent with the outer layer , or the cortex .	attention is more localized to the ________ side of the brain , while language is more localized to the ________ side of the brain .	attention is more localized to the ________ side of the brain , while language is more localized to the ________ side of the brain .
imagine a group of people . how big do you think the group would have to be before there 's more than a 50 % chance that two people in the group have the same birthday ?	a group of 10 people has _____ pairwise combinations , while a group of 15 has _____ combinations .	a group of 10 people has _____ pairwise combinations , while a group of 15 has _____ combinations .
and the recently increased impact of positive feedbacks may have consequences far beyond the arctic . on a warming planet , these feedbacks ensure that the north pole warms at a faster rate than the equator . the reduced temperature differences between the two regions may lead to slower jet stream winds and less linear atmospheric circulation in the middle latitudes , where most of the world 's population lives .	one idea for cooling a warming planet is to put a mirror or some other reflective object in space to cast a small shadow on the earth . explain why this might be a good or bad idea . remember to include the effects of feedbacks when discussing your answers .	one idea for cooling a warming planet is to put a mirror or some other reflective object in space to cast a small shadow on the earth . explain why this might be a good or bad idea . remember to include the effects of feedbacks when discussing your answers .
if you 've dealt with equations before , then you probably expect that there will be a solution to the equation , a right answer . the drake equation , however , is different , because there are so many unknowns . it has no right answer .	what makes the drake equation different from most other equations ?	what makes the drake equation different from most other equations ?
if you 've dealt with equations before , then you probably expect that there will be a solution to the equation , a right answer . the drake equation , however , is different , because there are so many unknowns . it has no right answer .	what is the drake equation attempting to calculate ?	what is the drake equation attempting to calculate ?
if you 've dealt with equations before , then you probably expect that there will be a solution to the equation , a right answer . the drake equation , however , is different , because there are so many unknowns . it has no right answer .	how can the drake equation be simplified ?	how can the drake equation be simplified ?
mysteries of vernacular : robot , a machine capable of carrying out a programmable series of actions . the origin of the word robot dates back more than a thousand years to the era of serfdom in central europe when servitude was the currency for rent . in those days , the old church slavonic word rabota described the forced labor of the people .	when serfdom was an acceptable form of employment , what was the `` currency for rent ? ''	when serfdom was an acceptable form of employment , what was the `` currency for rent ? ''
every character is exaggerated , round , and simple . and like many of the glove-wearing cartoon characters of his time , mickey mouse is a non-human doing very human things . in his 1968 biography , `` the disney version '' , walt disney addresses this very issue .	how do gloves add a human element to non-human characters ?	how do gloves add a human element to non-human characters ?
historical figures are often controversial , but few were as deified or vilified in their lifetime as the seventh president of the united states . this is history vs. andrew jackson . `` order , order , hm , uh , what were we ... ah yes , mr. jackson !	common people most identified all of jackson ’ s characteristics except ________ .	common people most identified all of jackson ’ s characteristics except ________ .
historical figures are often controversial , but few were as deified or vilified in their lifetime as the seventh president of the united states . this is history vs. andrew jackson . `` order , order , hm , uh , what were we ... ah yes , mr. jackson !	jackson successfully prevented the state of ___________ from seceding during the nullification crisis .	jackson successfully prevented the state of ___________ from seceding during the nullification crisis .
historical figures are often controversial , but few were as deified or vilified in their lifetime as the seventh president of the united states . this is history vs. andrew jackson . `` order , order , hm , uh , what were we ... ah yes , mr. jackson !	would you have found andrew jackson guilty or not guilty ? why ?	would you have found andrew jackson guilty or not guilty ? why ?
they did n't speak english , they spoke norse . plus , they were grown-ups , and grown-ups are n't as good at learning languages as children . after the age of roughly 15 , it 's almost impossible to learn a new language without an accent and without slipping up here and there as we all know from what language classes are like .	what languages have remained relatively unchanged throughout history ? why ?	what languages have remained relatively unchanged throughout history ? why ?
thankfully , your cells have the perfect knives for just this kind of job . when the cell finds or produces long , double-stranded rna molecules , it chops these molecules up with a protein actually named dicer . now , these short snippets of rna are floating around in the cell , and they 're picked up by something called risc , the rna silencing complex .	the initial long , double-stranded rna found in the cell is chopped up by a protein known as :	the initial long , double-stranded rna found in the cell is chopped up by a protein known as :
the two electrons must be entangled in close proximity before one of them is transported to a new site . by itself , quantum entanglement is n't teleportation . to complete the teleport , we need a digital message to help interpret the qubit at the receiving end .	in addition to entanglement , what else is needed to complete a quantum teleport ?	in addition to entanglement , what else is needed to complete a quantum teleport ?
the two electrons must be entangled in close proximity before one of them is transported to a new site . by itself , quantum entanglement is n't teleportation . to complete the teleport , we need a digital message to help interpret the qubit at the receiving end .	one of the postulates in albert einstein ’ s special theory of relativity asserts that nothing can move faster than the speed of light . does quantum teleportation violate this postulate ? why or why not ?	one of the postulates in albert einstein ’ s special theory of relativity asserts that nothing can move faster than the speed of light . does quantum teleportation violate this postulate ? why or why not ?
but just how long is that really ? here 's some analogies that might help you understand . for example , let 's imagine the entire history of earth until the present day as a single calendar year .	how does understanding the past help us understand the present ?	how does understanding the past help us understand the present ?
so here are three core strategies for peacefully turning awareness into action and protest into durable political power . first , expand the frame of the possible , second , choose a defining fight , and third , find an early win . let 's start with expanding the frame of the possible . how often have you heard in response to a policy idea , `` that 's just never going to happen '' ?	using the case study of seattle ’ s fight for a $ 15 minimum wage , which of the following is the best example of “ expanding the frame of the possible ” ?	using the case study of seattle ’ s fight for a $ 15 minimum wage , which of the following is the best example of “ expanding the frame of the possible ” ?
she 's an activist from the right , and i 'm an activist from the left . and we used some guidelines to keep our conversation elevated , and you can use them too , because i know you 're all going to take an other to lunch . so first of all , decide on a goal : to get to know one person from a group you may have negatively stereotyped .	what are the three guidelines that lesser shares to help keep the conversation elevated	what are the three guidelines that lesser shares to help keep the conversation elevated
every one of those 253 pairs is a chance for a birthday match . for the same reason , in a group of 70 people , there are 2,415 possible pairs , and the probability that two people have the same birthday is more than 99.9 % . the birthday problem is just one example where math can show that things that seem impossible , like the same person winning the lottery twice , actually are n't unlikely at all .	how many people would you need in a group to ensure a 99.9 % probability of two of them sharing the same birthday ?	how many people would you need in a group to ensure a 99.9 % probability of two of them sharing the same birthday ?
the city sky is , frankly , rather boring . if you look up at the patches of murk between buildings , you might be able to pick out the big dipper , or perhaps , orion 's belt .	why does the night sky look rather empty in cities ?	why does the night sky look rather empty in cities ?
the city sky is , frankly , rather boring . if you look up at the patches of murk between buildings , you might be able to pick out the big dipper , or perhaps , orion 's belt .	which of the following is an incorrect statement ?	which of the following is an incorrect statement ?
despite constant initiatives for metrication , many americans consider units like feet and pounds more intuitive . and ironically , some regard the once revolutionary metric system as a symbol of global conformity . nevertheless , the metric system is almost universally used in science and medicine , and it continues to evolve according to its original principles .	what might common french citizens have liked about the metric system when it was adopted ? what might they have disliked ? why ?	what might common french citizens have liked about the metric system when it was adopted ? what might they have disliked ? why ?
despite constant initiatives for metrication , many americans consider units like feet and pounds more intuitive . and ironically , some regard the once revolutionary metric system as a symbol of global conformity . nevertheless , the metric system is almost universally used in science and medicine , and it continues to evolve according to its original principles .	which of the following is not an advantage of the metric system ?	which of the following is not an advantage of the metric system ?
some of them stay aloft due to upward convection from the sun-heated ground , but most are in a state of slow , balletic descent . `` clouds are the patron goddesses of idle fellows , '' as the greek dramatist aristophanes wrote in 420 b.c . and nephology , the study of clouds , remains a daydreamer 's science , aptly founded by a thoughtful young man whose favorite activity was staring out of the window at the sky .	the study of clouds is known as :	the study of clouds is known as :
but the level in both tubes was the same . the ultimate support for torricelli 's theory came via blaise pascal who had such a mercury tube taken up a mountain and showed that the mercury level dropped as the atmospheric pressure decreased with altitude . mercury barometers based on torricelli 's original model remained one of the most common ways to measure atmospheric pressure until 2007 when restrictions on the use of mercury due to its toxicity led to them no longer being produced in europe .	what did blaise pascal do with the mercury barometer ?	what did blaise pascal do with the mercury barometer ?
but the level in both tubes was the same . the ultimate support for torricelli 's theory came via blaise pascal who had such a mercury tube taken up a mountain and showed that the mercury level dropped as the atmospheric pressure decreased with altitude . mercury barometers based on torricelli 's original model remained one of the most common ways to measure atmospheric pressure until 2007 when restrictions on the use of mercury due to its toxicity led to them no longer being produced in europe .	given what you know about barometers and atmospheric pressure , theorize what would happen if a barometer used a zig-zagged tube full of mercury . would the levels match those of a barometer with a perfectly straight tube ?	given what you know about barometers and atmospheric pressure , theorize what would happen if a barometer used a zig-zagged tube full of mercury . would the levels match those of a barometer with a perfectly straight tube ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar most people have heard of the electoral college during presidential election years . but what exactly is the electoral college ? simply said , it is a group of people appointed by each state who formally elect the president and vice president of the united states .	what is the electoral college ?	what is the electoral college ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar most people have heard of the electoral college during presidential election years . but what exactly is the electoral college ? simply said , it is a group of people appointed by each state who formally elect the president and vice president of the united states .	we can find a description of the electoral college ( in article ii , section i , clause ii ) in what historical document ?	we can find a description of the electoral college ( in article ii , section i , clause ii ) in what historical document ?
they had a system with kings and nobles we now call the ancien régime . thank you , three years of high school french . and for most french people , it sucked , because the people with the money - the nobles and the clergy - never paid taxes . so by 1789 , france was deeply in debt thanks to their funding the american revolution - thank you , france ; we will get you back in world wars i and ii . and king louis xvi was spending half of his national budget to service the federal debt .	what conditions existed in france in 1789 that caused the french people to revolt ?	what conditions existed in france in 1789 that caused the french people to revolt ?
a slave stands by in case either of them needs to vomit . with hindsight , we know lucius ' future . in 20 years ' time , the emperor vespasian 's youngest son , domitian , as emperor , will enact a reign of terror .	in hindsight , we know lucius ' future . which emperor will enact a reign of terror on rome in lucius ' adult life ?	in hindsight , we know lucius ' future . which emperor will enact a reign of terror on rome in lucius ' adult life ?
the term is attributed to the english-swiss physicist peter mark roget , who , in the early 19th century , used it to describe a particular defect of the eye that resulted in a moving object appearing to be still when it reached a certain speed . not long after , the term was applied to describe the opposite , the apparent motion of still images , by belgian physicist joseph plateau , inventor of the phenakistoscope . he defined persistence of vision as the result of successive afterimages , which were retained and then combined in the retina , making us believe that what we were seeing is a single object in motion .	who invented the phenakistoscope ?	who invented the phenakistoscope ?
but it turns out that it actually evolved between the human and the honeyguide , and the badger 's a parasite . now , when we look at bees , there is this amazing diversity out there , 20,000 species . and one in three bites of food that we eat is thanks to an insect pollinator .	how many species of bees exist ?	how many species of bees exist ?
governments ? reality may not play out exactly like our thought experiments , but that 's not the point . they 're designed to isolate and stress test our intuitions on ethics , just like science experiments do for the physical world . spotting these moral hairpin turns now will help us maneuver the unfamiliar road of technology ethics , and allow us to cruise confidently and conscientiously into our brave new future .	how are these thought experiments like science experiments ?	how are these thought experiments like science experiments ?
in the 1900s , a clever chap named albert einstein worked out how to see things properly , from tom 's point of view , while still getting the speed of light right . first , we need to glue together the separate panels into one solid block . this gives us our space-time , turning space and time into one smooth , continuous material .	why do we need to glue the panels together ?	why do we need to glue the panels together ?
so if we look into the quarry in the normal daylight in the absence of the snow it would look a bit like a lunar landscape . no the black stuff that is that stuff is crystal , that is the crystal in rocks , now i say that for one specific reason because during the apollo programme the astronauts , they came back from the moon with bucket loads and bucket loads of moon rock and dust . that part of it is .	why does this video begin with images of astronauts from the apollo program walking on the moon ?	why does this video begin with images of astronauts from the apollo program walking on the moon ?
though it 's common today , this kind of perspective drawing has only been around since the italian renaissance . ancient art often showed all figures on the same plane , varying in size by symbolic importance . classical greek and roman artists realized they could make objects seem further by drawing them smaller , but many early attempts at perspective were inconsistent or incorrect .	give some examples of how creativity and problem solving is used in both mathematics and art .	give some examples of how creativity and problem solving is used in both mathematics and art .
let 's take a step back for a second . scientists grow human cells in the lab to study how they function , understand how diseases develop , and test new treatments without endangering patients . to make sure that they can repeat these experiments over and over , and compare the results with other scientists , they need huge populations of identical cells that can duplicate themselves faithfully for years , but until 1951 , all human cell lines that researchers tried to grow had died after a few days .	why do scientists need to be able to study cells in a laboratory environment ?	why do scientists need to be able to study cells in a laboratory environment ?
let 's take a step back for a second . scientists grow human cells in the lab to study how they function , understand how diseases develop , and test new treatments without endangering patients . to make sure that they can repeat these experiments over and over , and compare the results with other scientists , they need huge populations of identical cells that can duplicate themselves faithfully for years , but until 1951 , all human cell lines that researchers tried to grow had died after a few days .	why is it so important for scientists to have a tool like hela cells in order to study human disease ?	why is it so important for scientists to have a tool like hela cells in order to study human disease ?
whoops ! this happens all the time because public opinion polls are either inaccurate or misleading . so , why are they wrong ?	even if polls are conducted as scientifically as possible , it is still likely that the answers may either be inaccurate or misleading . what are some other reasons , besides those mentioned in the video , that public opinion polls may be wrong ?	even if polls are conducted as scientifically as possible , it is still likely that the answers may either be inaccurate or misleading . what are some other reasons , besides those mentioned in the video , that public opinion polls may be wrong ?
again from the bottom end of the periodic table , the lanthanides , and you can see it ’ s a really quite beautiful metallic foil here . so lutetium is the last of the 4f lanthanide series and it ’ s also used for dating meteorites . and , it ’ s a very small sample .	lutetium is the last of the lanthanides . what is its correct electronic configuration ?	lutetium is the last of the lanthanides . what is its correct electronic configuration ?
introduce an rnai construct for that gene , and bam ! no more protein expression . you can even get creative and target that effect to certain systems , knocking down genes in just the brain , or just the liver , or just the heart .	which nucleic acid acts as a messenger between dna and protein ?	which nucleic acid acts as a messenger between dna and protein ?
introduce an rnai construct for that gene , and bam ! no more protein expression . you can even get creative and target that effect to certain systems , knocking down genes in just the brain , or just the liver , or just the heart .	rnai works because it interferes with the second step of the central dogma , the translation of rna into protein . explain the process of how dna is made into protein using an rna intermediate .	rnai works because it interferes with the second step of the central dogma , the translation of rna into protein . explain the process of how dna is made into protein using an rna intermediate .
and the answer is emotional . so , just as the soldier mindset is rooted in emotions like defensiveness or tribalism , scout mindset is too . it 's just rooted in different emotions .	what does it mean to have a soldier mindset ?	what does it mean to have a soldier mindset ?
and the answer is emotional . so , just as the soldier mindset is rooted in emotions like defensiveness or tribalism , scout mindset is too . it 's just rooted in different emotions .	what does it mean to have a scout mindset ?	what does it mean to have a scout mindset ?
and the answer is emotional . so , just as the soldier mindset is rooted in emotions like defensiveness or tribalism , scout mindset is too . it 's just rooted in different emotions .	what do you think helps create a scout mindset ?	what do you think helps create a scout mindset ?
leading them were the senator gaius cassius longinus and his friend and brother-in-law , brutus . joining the conspiracy was not an easy choice for brutus . even though brutus had sided with pompey in the ill-fated civil war , caesar had personally intervened to save his life , not only pardoning him but even accepting him as a close advisor and elevating him to important posts .	why was brutus convinced to lead the conspiracy against caesar ?	why was brutus convinced to lead the conspiracy against caesar ?
any prisoner can approach the guards at night and ask to leave . if they have green eyes , they 'll be released . if not , they 'll be tossed into the volcano .	what proportion of the prisoners have green eyes ?	what proportion of the prisoners have green eyes ?
by even further isolating specific components of antigens , like proteins or polysaccharides , these vaccines can prompt specific responses . scientists are now building a whole new range of vaccines called dna vaccines . for this variety , they isolate the very genes that make the specific antigens the body needs to trigger its immune response to specific pathogens .	which is not true about subunit vaccines ?	which is not true about subunit vaccines ?
by even further isolating specific components of antigens , like proteins or polysaccharides , these vaccines can prompt specific responses . scientists are now building a whole new range of vaccines called dna vaccines . for this variety , they isolate the very genes that make the specific antigens the body needs to trigger its immune response to specific pathogens .	dna vaccines and protein subunit vaccines can be designed and synthesized . what is the benefit of this ?	dna vaccines and protein subunit vaccines can be designed and synthesized . what is the benefit of this ?
by even further isolating specific components of antigens , like proteins or polysaccharides , these vaccines can prompt specific responses . scientists are now building a whole new range of vaccines called dna vaccines . for this variety , they isolate the very genes that make the specific antigens the body needs to trigger its immune response to specific pathogens .	vaccines do not only protect those who get vaccinated , but others as well . is this true ? why or why not ?	vaccines do not only protect those who get vaccinated , but others as well . is this true ? why or why not ?
in each instance , the price rose and rose and then abruptly plummeted . economists call this a bubble . so what is exactly is going on with a bubble ?	how does an economic bubble burst ?	how does an economic bubble burst ?
because synesthesia generally involves the brain pairing up two or more senses , we paired up playing cards with unique , colorful , and visceral symbols . we then used an animation technique called stop motion to manipulate the cards in ways that would be otherwise physically impossible . and as the cards were flipping , shuffling , and sliding , we used a mixture of animation and reality to ensure that the symbols on the cards did their part to explain the nuances of synesthesia .	we then used an animation technique called ________ to manipulate the cards in ways that would be otherwise physically impossible .	we then used an animation technique called ________ to manipulate the cards in ways that would be otherwise physically impossible .
we need to radically rethink our view of intelligence . we know three things about intelligence . one , it 's diverse .	what three things do we know about intelligence , according to sir ken ?	what three things do we know about intelligence , according to sir ken ?
but when the hair follicles produce too much keratin , the extra protein binds together dead skin cells , so they can ’ t just shed out of the pore like they normally would . you end up with a blockage that then traps more dead skin cells , plus sebum . once the pore is officially clogged , it becomes a breeding ground for colonies of bacteria — especially propionibacterium acnes .	what two functions does sebum -- the oil on your skin -- serve ?	what two functions does sebum -- the oil on your skin -- serve ?
the `` aeneid , '' a 9,896 line poem , spans twelve separate sections , or books , the first six of which mirror the structure of the `` odyssey '' and the last six echo the `` iliad . '' also like the greek epics , the `` aeneid '' is written entirely in dactylic hexameter . in this meter , each line has six syllable groups called feet made up of dactyls which go long , short , short , and spondees which go long , long . so the famous opening line in the original latin starts , `` arma virvmqve cano , '' which can be translated as `` i sing of arms and the man , '' arms , meaning battles and warfare , another `` iliad '' reference , and the man being the hero aeneas .	how long had virgil been writing the `` aeneid '' when he died ?	how long had virgil been writing the `` aeneid '' when he died ?
`` ha ! the constitution was practically dictated at gunpoint in a military coup , and the public only accepted the tyrant because they were tired of constant civil war . '' `` be that as it may , napoléon introduced a new constitution and a legal code that kept some of the most important achievements of the revolution in tact : freedom of religion abolition of hereditary privilege , and equality before the law for all men . ''	why was napoleon so often at war ?	why was napoleon so often at war ?
inventors have proposed plenty of ideas . several of these have been variations on bhaskara 's over-balanced wheel with rolling balls or weights on swinging arms . none of them work .	why will bhaskara 's wheel stop spinning ?	why will bhaskara 's wheel stop spinning ?
as its influence grew , aspirin was found to ease not just pain , but also many inflammation-related problems , like rheumatoid arthritis , pericarditis , which enflames the fluid-filled sack around the heart , and kawasaki disease , where blood vessels become inflamed . yet , despite aspirin 's medical value , at this point , scientists still did n't actually know how it worked . in the 1960s and 70s , swedish and british scientists changed that .	all of the following scientists were involved in the history of aspirin , except which one ?	all of the following scientists were involved in the history of aspirin , except which one ?
and throwing souvenirs out the window too many times is probably going to draw the guards ' attention . what 's the least number of tries it would take to guarantee that she find the right floor ? pause here if you want to figure it out for yourself !	what ’ s the least number of tries it would take to guarantee that the thief finds the right floor if she has only one egg to experiment with ?	what ’ s the least number of tries it would take to guarantee that the thief finds the right floor if she has only one egg to experiment with ?
and throwing souvenirs out the window too many times is probably going to draw the guards ' attention . what 's the least number of tries it would take to guarantee that she find the right floor ? pause here if you want to figure it out for yourself !	suppose the building is 36 floors high . what ’ s the least number of tries it would take to guarantee that the thief finds the right floor ?	suppose the building is 36 floors high . what ’ s the least number of tries it would take to guarantee that the thief finds the right floor ?
and throwing souvenirs out the window too many times is probably going to draw the guards ' attention . what 's the least number of tries it would take to guarantee that she find the right floor ? pause here if you want to figure it out for yourself !	let ’ s generalize to buildings with different heights . find an equation that relates the number of floors to the least number of tries .	let ’ s generalize to buildings with different heights . find an equation that relates the number of floors to the least number of tries .
well , i 'm going to talk to you about how to make that happen . the thing that we need to do is to make robots smarter . now , no one will argue that we do n't have robots .	if humans make robots smarter , do you think their intelligence will ever surpass the human brain ?	if humans make robots smarter , do you think their intelligence will ever surpass the human brain ?
its feedback loops can affect us in much more direct and immediate ways . as climate scientists often warn , what happens in the arctic does n't always stay in the arctic .	what physical characteristics of the arctic make climate feedbacks possible ?	what physical characteristics of the arctic make climate feedbacks possible ?
that 's crazy ! you mean to say that if i filled the earth with blueberries , i would have the same number of nitrogen atoms as a grapefruit ? that 's right !	the number of atoms in a grapefruit would be equivalent to	the number of atoms in a grapefruit would be equivalent to
if you stumbled upon this living arrangement , you might just think that the whole thing was one organism , that the green photosynthetic bacteria were just a part of the blob that performed one of its life functions , just like your heart is a part of you that performs the function of pumping your blood . this process of cells living together is called endosymbiosis , one organism living inside another . but the endosymbiosis did n't stop there .	new mitochondria inside eukaryotic cells are produced by :	new mitochondria inside eukaryotic cells are produced by :
for decades , researchers have asked , `` what happens when we communicate ? '' one interpretation , called the transmission model , views communication as a message that moves directly from one person to another , similar to someone tossing a ball and walking away . but in reality , this simplistic model does n't account for communication 's complexity . enter the transactional model , which acknowledges the many added challenges of communicating .	the ______ communication model suggests that communication is a simple message delivery from one person to another .	the ______ communication model suggests that communication is a simple message delivery from one person to another .
you could reshape a donut into a coffee cup and it would still have just one . that topological property is stable . on the other hand , a pretzel has three holes .	can you conceive a new topological matter and an amazing property that it may possess ?	can you conceive a new topological matter and an amazing property that it may possess ?
thanks to the uncertainty principle , teleportation transfers the information about the baseball between the two cities and never duplicates it . so in principle , we could teleport objects , even people , but at present , it seems unlikely we can measure the quantum states of the trillion trillion or more atoms in large objects and then recreate them elsewhere . the complexity of this task and the energy needed is astronomical .	at present , why does it seem unlikely that we ’ ll be able to quantum teleport humans around the world ?	at present , why does it seem unlikely that we ’ ll be able to quantum teleport humans around the world ?
i 'm not smart . i barely passed high school . i had absolutely nothing going for me .	what best describes me in high school ?	what best describes me in high school ?
here 's another sixfold pattern that has appeared across the centuries and all over the islamic world , including marrakesh , agra , konya and the alhambra . fourfold patterns fit in a square grid , and sixfold patterns in a hexagonal grid . fivefold patterns , however , are more challenging to tessellate because pentagons do n't neatly fill a surface , so instead of just creating a pattern in a pentagon , other shapes have to be added to make something that is repeatable , resulting in patterns that may seem confoundingly complex , but are still relatively simple to create .	which of the following statements are true ? a grid _____ .	which of the following statements are true ? a grid _____ .
here 's another sixfold pattern that has appeared across the centuries and all over the islamic world , including marrakesh , agra , konya and the alhambra . fourfold patterns fit in a square grid , and sixfold patterns in a hexagonal grid . fivefold patterns , however , are more challenging to tessellate because pentagons do n't neatly fill a surface , so instead of just creating a pattern in a pentagon , other shapes have to be added to make something that is repeatable , resulting in patterns that may seem confoundingly complex , but are still relatively simple to create .	why are fivefold patterns more difficult to tessellate than fourfold or sixfold patterns ?	why are fivefold patterns more difficult to tessellate than fourfold or sixfold patterns ?
here 's another sixfold pattern that has appeared across the centuries and all over the islamic world , including marrakesh , agra , konya and the alhambra . fourfold patterns fit in a square grid , and sixfold patterns in a hexagonal grid . fivefold patterns , however , are more challenging to tessellate because pentagons do n't neatly fill a surface , so instead of just creating a pattern in a pentagon , other shapes have to be added to make something that is repeatable , resulting in patterns that may seem confoundingly complex , but are still relatively simple to create .	the way islamic geometric patterns are embellished/made more beautiful differs per region . in mughal india , they used marble and colored stone . in mamluk , cairo , they made many patterns in wood . in ilkhanid , iran , they used different ceramic glazes . in marinid , morocco , they used small ceramic tiles . craftsmen made deliberate choices about how they presented their geometric patterns , often taking into consideration the distance of the observer . take note of the differences and similarities of some islamic geometric patterns and imagine yourself in the shoes of the craftsman who made them . what was he trying to achieve ? what do you think may have determined his design choices ?	the way islamic geometric patterns are embellished/made more beautiful differs per region . in mughal india , they used marble and colored stone . in mamluk , cairo , they made many patterns in wood . in ilkhanid , iran , they used different ceramic glazes . in marinid , morocco , they used small ceramic tiles . craftsmen made deliberate choices about how they presented their geometric patterns , often taking into consideration the distance of the observer . take note of the differences and similarities of some islamic geometric patterns and imagine yourself in the shoes of the craftsman who made them . what was he trying to achieve ? what do you think may have determined his design choices ?
it 's all about overcoming obstacles . it 's true , i have a disability , but so do you . i also have an ability , so do you .	which of the following are true of steven ?	which of the following are true of steven ?
it 's then transferred to long-term memory through areas such as the hippocampus , and finally to several storage regions across the brain . neurons throughout the brain communicate at dedicated sites called synapses using specialized neurotransmitters . if two neurons communicate repeatedly , a remarkable thing happens : the efficiency of communication between them increases .	describe the neural components necessary for brain cells to communicate and the process in which memories are formed .	describe the neural components necessary for brain cells to communicate and the process in which memories are formed .
just as it rears up to devour him , three mysterious ladies appear and slay the dragon with their fierce battle cry . so begins wolfgang amadeus mozart 's `` die zauberflöte , '' or `` the magic flute . '' this fantasy singspiel , a type of folk opera with music and dialogue , premiered in 1791 in vienna .	what are some of the occurrences of the number 3 in the `` magic flute '' ? why was this significant and most likely deliberate on mozart ’ s part ?	what are some of the occurrences of the number 3 in the `` magic flute '' ? why was this significant and most likely deliberate on mozart ’ s part ?
just as it rears up to devour him , three mysterious ladies appear and slay the dragon with their fierce battle cry . so begins wolfgang amadeus mozart 's `` die zauberflöte , '' or `` the magic flute . '' this fantasy singspiel , a type of folk opera with music and dialogue , premiered in 1791 in vienna .	enlightenment is symbolized within the `` magic flute . '' how ?	enlightenment is symbolized within the `` magic flute . '' how ?
the experiment was actually designed to refute a philosophical notion called hedonism . according to hedonists , maximizing net pleasure is the most important thing in life because pleasure is the greatest good that life has to offer . for hedonists , the best choice that a person could make for himself is one that brings him the greatest possible amount of pleasure while bringing him no pain .	according to hedonism , what is the ultimate `` good '' in life ?	according to hedonism , what is the ultimate `` good '' in life ?
the experiment was actually designed to refute a philosophical notion called hedonism . according to hedonists , maximizing net pleasure is the most important thing in life because pleasure is the greatest good that life has to offer . for hedonists , the best choice that a person could make for himself is one that brings him the greatest possible amount of pleasure while bringing him no pain .	provide your own real-life example of a situation in which a person might not choose to maximize their net pleasure .	provide your own real-life example of a situation in which a person might not choose to maximize their net pleasure .
though they have absolutely no parts in common , the two ships are numerically identical , meaning one and the same , so a equals b . however , others could argue that theseus never set foot on ship b , and his presence on the ship is an essential qualitative property of the ship of theseus . it can not survive without him .	who was theseus ?	who was theseus ?
though they have absolutely no parts in common , the two ships are numerically identical , meaning one and the same , so a equals b . however , others could argue that theseus never set foot on ship b , and his presence on the ship is an essential qualitative property of the ship of theseus . it can not survive without him .	when something is a paradox , it means that it seems illogical . how is the story of the ship of theseus a paradox ?	when something is a paradox , it means that it seems illogical . how is the story of the ship of theseus a paradox ?
while countries by and large agree on one definition of refugee , every host country is responsible for examining all requests for asylum and deciding whether applicants can be granted the status of refugee . different countries guidelines can vary substantially . host countries have several duties towards people they have recognized as refugees , like the guarantee of a minimum standard of treatment and non-discrimination . the most basic obligation towards refugees is non-refoulement , a principle preventing a nation from sending an individual to a country where their life and freedom are threatened .	host countries have several obligations towards refugees , such as :	host countries have several obligations towards refugees , such as :
he developed something called a daguerreotype , which used a silvered plate and which produced a sharper image . but the daguerreotype could only make positive images so copies had to be made by taking another photo . in the end , the daguerreotype won out as the first commercially successful photographic process mostly because the government made it freely available to the public . so now that photography was available , getting a picture of yourself would be a snap , right ? well , not exactly !	what did the government make available to the pubilc that made it `` a snap '' to have your picture taken ?	what did the government make available to the pubilc that made it `` a snap '' to have your picture taken ?
trillions of bacteria , viruses , and fungi live on or inside of us , and maintaining a good , balanced relationship with them is to our advantage . together , they form the gut microbiome , a rich ecosystem that performs a variety of functions in our bodies . the bacteria in our guts can break down food the body ca n't digest , produce important nutrients , regulate the immune system , and protect against harmful germs .	what are some ways of eating that can help cultivate gut microbiome diversity ?	what are some ways of eating that can help cultivate gut microbiome diversity ?
trillions of bacteria , viruses , and fungi live on or inside of us , and maintaining a good , balanced relationship with them is to our advantage . together , they form the gut microbiome , a rich ecosystem that performs a variety of functions in our bodies . the bacteria in our guts can break down food the body ca n't digest , produce important nutrients , regulate the immune system , and protect against harmful germs .	what are some helpful functions that gut bacteria provide for our bodies ?	what are some helpful functions that gut bacteria provide for our bodies ?
should n't there have been an equal amount of matter and antimatter created in the big bang ? '' `` you 'd think so , but then all of those particles would have annihilated each other into energy , remember ? and the universe is obviously full of matter .	by observing the behavior of antihydrogen in the earth ; s gravitational field , what do physicists want to measure ? how do you think they could perform the experiment ?	by observing the behavior of antihydrogen in the earth ; s gravitational field , what do physicists want to measure ? how do you think they could perform the experiment ?
to keep their emotions in check , they carefully prepare for an assignment , building glossaries in advance , reading voraciously about the subject matter , and reviewing previous talks on the topic . finally , interpreters work in pairs . while one colleague is busy translating incoming speeches in real time , the other gives support by locating documents , looking up words , and tracking down pertinent information .	for conference interpreters , effective stress management skills are as important as linguistic competence . list three things interpreters do to keep their emotions in check .	for conference interpreters , effective stress management skills are as important as linguistic competence . list three things interpreters do to keep their emotions in check .
roquentin has to force himself to remember that this thing beside him is something for people to sit on . for a terrifying moment , roquentin has peered into what sartre calls the ‘ absurdity of the world. ’ such a moment goes to the heart of sartre ’ s philosophy . to be sartrean is to be aware of existence as it is when it has been stripped of any of the prejudices and stabilising assumptions lent to us by our day-to-day routines .	sartre asserted that the world is _______ than we think .	sartre asserted that the world is _______ than we think .
roquentin has to force himself to remember that this thing beside him is something for people to sit on . for a terrifying moment , roquentin has peered into what sartre calls the ‘ absurdity of the world. ’ such a moment goes to the heart of sartre ’ s philosophy . to be sartrean is to be aware of existence as it is when it has been stripped of any of the prejudices and stabilising assumptions lent to us by our day-to-day routines .	how do we see `` the absurdity of the world ? ''	how do we see `` the absurdity of the world ? ''
so far , so good . but that space-time diagram represents andrew 's perspective . what does it look like to me ?	why does light have to appear at the same angle when drawn on a space-time diagram ?	why does light have to appear at the same angle when drawn on a space-time diagram ?
so far , so good . but that space-time diagram represents andrew 's perspective . what does it look like to me ?	why do we have to redraw the animation as seen from andrew 's perspective ?	why do we have to redraw the animation as seen from andrew 's perspective ?
`` all men are created equal and they are endowed with the rights to life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness . '' not so fast , mr. jefferson !	how could the men who pledged their lives and fortunes to “ life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness ” accept slavery ?	how could the men who pledged their lives and fortunes to “ life , liberty and the pursuit of happiness ” accept slavery ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar about 100 days ago , we landed a two-ton suv on the surface of another planet , on the surface of mars . this is one of the first pictures we took there with our rover , looking out at mount sharp .	why do you think we 're exploring the surface of mars ?	why do you think we 're exploring the surface of mars ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar about 100 days ago , we landed a two-ton suv on the surface of another planet , on the surface of mars . this is one of the first pictures we took there with our rover , looking out at mount sharp .	why do you think we will ( or why do you think we will not ) realize the age of star wars / star trek ?	why do you think we will ( or why do you think we will not ) realize the age of star wars / star trek ?
what do you think we 're going to see ? i think science might be able to answer that . and i 'm not a scientist !	from what you learned in this video how might this affect how we choose materials for construction ?	from what you learned in this video how might this affect how we choose materials for construction ?
the human retina is made of different layers of cells , with special neurons that live in the back of the eye called rod and cone photoreceptors . photoreceptors convert the light coming into your eye into signals that the brain uses to generate vision . people who have usher syndrome and retinitis pigmentosa experience a steady loss of these photoreceptors until finally that screen in the eye can no longer detect light nor broadcast signals to the brain .	loss of photoreceptors is one cause of blindness or visual impairment . considering all the different steps involved – from the eye , the optic nerve , to the brain - describe other problems a person might have that would result in blindness or problems with vision .	loss of photoreceptors is one cause of blindness or visual impairment . considering all the different steps involved – from the eye , the optic nerve , to the brain - describe other problems a person might have that would result in blindness or problems with vision .
what makes emergence so complex is that you ca n't understand it by simply taking it apart , like the engine of a car . taking things apart is a good first step to understanding a complex system . but if you reduce a school of fish to individuals , it loses the ability to evade predators , and there 's nothing left to study .	imagine you travel to another planet , and discover a completely new form of life . you know absolutely nothing about them . how would you go about studying these creatures ? what would be the first thing you ’ d want to know about them ? what questions could you then ask once you knew more about them ?	imagine you travel to another planet , and discover a completely new form of life . you know absolutely nothing about them . how would you go about studying these creatures ? what would be the first thing you ’ d want to know about them ? what questions could you then ask once you knew more about them ?
what makes emergence so complex is that you ca n't understand it by simply taking it apart , like the engine of a car . taking things apart is a good first step to understanding a complex system . but if you reduce a school of fish to individuals , it loses the ability to evade predators , and there 's nothing left to study .	what is not a good example of a system that might exhibit emergent behaviors ?	what is not a good example of a system that might exhibit emergent behaviors ?
they can form an image even when just a single photon hits each photoreceptor per second . they accomplish this with photoreceptors that are more than 25 times slower than human ones . this means toads can collect photons for up to four seconds , allowing them to gather many more than our eyes do at each visual time interval .	why do toad photoreceptors react so much slower than ours ?	why do toad photoreceptors react so much slower than ours ?
19th century psychologist herman ebbinghaus demonstrated that we normally forget 40 % of new material within the first twenty minutes , a phenomenon known as the forgetting curve . but this loss can be prevented through memory consolidation , the process by which information is moved from our fleeting short-term memory to our more durable long-term memory . this consolidation occurs with the help of a major part of the brain , known as the hippocampus .	describe the anatomical path of memory-making , beginning with the input of new material and ending with consolidation as a long-term memory .	describe the anatomical path of memory-making , beginning with the input of new material and ending with consolidation as a long-term memory .
19th century psychologist herman ebbinghaus demonstrated that we normally forget 40 % of new material within the first twenty minutes , a phenomenon known as the forgetting curve . but this loss can be prevented through memory consolidation , the process by which information is moved from our fleeting short-term memory to our more durable long-term memory . this consolidation occurs with the help of a major part of the brain , known as the hippocampus .	using the same lists of tasks you stated in the previous question , determine which stage of sleep most likely encoded and consolidated the tasks as long-term memory .	using the same lists of tasks you stated in the previous question , determine which stage of sleep most likely encoded and consolidated the tasks as long-term memory .
start with utensils for the main course , putting your dinner fork on the left and your dinner knife on the right-hand side since these are the hands we use them with . here 's a helpful tip : you always eat outside-in , so to set for salad , we 'll put the salad fork to the outside of the dinner fork and the salad knife to the outside of the dinner knife . we 'll have salad first , then our main course .	explain what is meant by `` you always eat from outside in . ''	explain what is meant by `` you always eat from outside in . ''
the greek philosopher plato , one of the most famous and influential greek thinkers of the time , asserted that music had a direct effect on a person 's ethos . certain kinds of music could incite a person to violence while others could placate a person into a benign , unthinking stupor . according to plato , only very specific types of music were beneficial to a person 's ethos .	think of a topic or discipline not overseen by one of the muses . it could be a science , a school subject , a genre of literature or anything else that we use in our lives to understand the world around us . write a song that could be used to teach someone about the subject .	think of a topic or discipline not overseen by one of the muses . it could be a science , a school subject , a genre of literature or anything else that we use in our lives to understand the world around us . write a song that could be used to teach someone about the subject .
but we potentially could go much smaller in the future . to get a sense of the extent to which that 's true , the observable universe is 26 orders of magnitude larger than a human body . that means if you zoomed out by a factor of ten 26 times , you 'd be at the scale of the universe .	which of the following statements is true :	which of the following statements is true :
this is known as ionizing radiation because an atom that has lost or gained electrons is called an ion . all nuclear radiation is ionizing , while only the highest energy electromagnetic radiation is . that includes gamma rays , x-rays , and the high-energy end of ultraviolet .	ionizing radiation is energetic enough to potentially damage cells upon impact . which of the following radiation can be ionizing ?	ionizing radiation is energetic enough to potentially damage cells upon impact . which of the following radiation can be ionizing ?
this is known as ionizing radiation because an atom that has lost or gained electrons is called an ion . all nuclear radiation is ionizing , while only the highest energy electromagnetic radiation is . that includes gamma rays , x-rays , and the high-energy end of ultraviolet .	sometimes when a nucleus decays , it ejects a packet of pure energy known as a gamma ray . which type of radiation is a gamma ray : electromagnetic or nuclear ?	sometimes when a nucleus decays , it ejects a packet of pure energy known as a gamma ray . which type of radiation is a gamma ray : electromagnetic or nuclear ?
passengers paid a fare to be carried from one side of the grand canal to the other , as well as to other points around the city . but gondoliers soon developed a bad rap . historical documents describe numerous infractions involving boatmen , including cursing , gambling , extorting passengers -- even occasional acts of violence .	oarlocks became more intricately carved over the centuries in order to allow gondoliers to have :	oarlocks became more intricately carved over the centuries in order to allow gondoliers to have :
a mouse , for instance , can hardly expect to survive more than a year in the wild . so , it has evolved to grow and reproduce more rapidly , like an evolutionary defense mechanism against its shorter lifespan . larger animals , by contrast , are better at fending off predators , and so they have the luxury of time to grow to large sizes and reproduce multiple times during their lives .	which of the following has the shortest lifespan ?	which of the following has the shortest lifespan ?
a mouse , for instance , can hardly expect to survive more than a year in the wild . so , it has evolved to grow and reproduce more rapidly , like an evolutionary defense mechanism against its shorter lifespan . larger animals , by contrast , are better at fending off predators , and so they have the luxury of time to grow to large sizes and reproduce multiple times during their lives .	what is the evolutionary explanation for mice to have a short lifespan ?	what is the evolutionary explanation for mice to have a short lifespan ?
over 138 people died while attempting escape . some shot in full view of west germans powerless to help them . the wall stabilized east germany 's economy by preventing its work force from leaving , but tarnished its reputation , becoming a global symbol of communist repression . as part of reconciliation with the east , the basic treaty of 1972 recognized east germany pragmatically while west germany retained its hope for eventual reunification . although the eastern regime gradually allowed family visits , it tried to discourage people from exercising these rights with an arduous bureaucratic process and high fees .	compare the economies and environments of west and east germany during the time when the berlin wall was in place .	compare the economies and environments of west and east germany during the time when the berlin wall was in place .
`` would you vote for candidate smith if you knew that he robs senior citizens ? '' is a push poll . so , if polls are open to all sorts of manipulation and inaccuracies , why are they still so prevalent ?	which of the following is an example of a question that one might find in a push poll ?	which of the following is an example of a question that one might find in a push poll ?
vocs and nitrous oxide react with sunlight to produce secondary pollutants called pans and tropospheric , or ground level , ozone . pans and ozone cause eye irritation and damage lung tissue . both are key ingredients in photochemical smog , which is what had been plaguing la .	the two secondary pollutants associated with photochemical smog that cause both eye irritation and potential lung damage are :	the two secondary pollutants associated with photochemical smog that cause both eye irritation and potential lung damage are :
a huge cell would back up with waste and eventually die and disintegrate . there 's another plus to having multitudes of smaller cells , too . it 's hardly a tragedy if one gets punctured , infected , or destroyed .	as cells get larger , which of the following is true ?	as cells get larger , which of the following is true ?
if you 've seen tiny dots of light darting about when looking at a bright blue sky , you 've experienced what is known as the blue field entoptic phenomenon . in some ways , this is the opposite of seeing floaters . here , you are not seeing shadows but little moving windows letting light through to your retina .	seeing floaters is normal . but if you suddenly see many more small floaters , there might be a serious problem . what might be happening ?	seeing floaters is normal . but if you suddenly see many more small floaters , there might be a serious problem . what might be happening ?
on one side , the air moved in the opposite direction to the ball 's spin , causing increased pressure , while on the other side , the air moved in the same direction as the spin , creating an area of lower pressure . that difference made the ball curve towards the lower pressure zone . this phenomenon is called the magnus effect .	what causes the ball to curve ?	what causes the ball to curve ?
so now what we are going to do is we ’ re going to go outside and we ’ re going to put this on a piece of filter paper and then let the carbon disulphide evaporate so we can see the reaction of the phosphorus with the oxygen and the paper . and the average person produces inside their body about 70 kilos a day of a molecule called atp , adenosine triphosphate , which is the energy producing molecule inside the body . now you don ’ t keep 70 kilos inside you , or you would explode , but you ’ re using it up all the time but in the course of the day you synthesise nearly 70 kilos of this molecule .	phosphorus is essential for life . phosphate is a component of dna and also of an energy-producing molecule in your body . what is name of this molecule ?	phosphorus is essential for life . phosphate is a component of dna and also of an energy-producing molecule in your body . what is name of this molecule ?
stress is a feeling we all experience when we are challenged or overwhelmed . but more than just an emotion , stress is a hardwired physical response that travels throughout your entire body . in the short term , stress can be advantageous , but when activated too often or too long , your primitive fight or flight stress response not only changes your brain but also damages many of the other organs and cells throughout your body . your adrenal gland releases the stress hormones cortisol , epinephrine , also known as adrenaline , and norepinephrine .	how does sensing stress get communicated throughout your body ?	how does sensing stress get communicated throughout your body ?
cell membranes are structures of contradictions . these oily films are hundreds of times thinner than a strand of spider silk , yet strong enough to protect the delicate contents of life : the cell 's watery cytoplasm , genetic material , organelles , and all the molecules it needs to survive .	which are the primary molecules making up plasma membranes in cells ?	which are the primary molecules making up plasma membranes in cells ?
cell membranes are structures of contradictions . these oily films are hundreds of times thinner than a strand of spider silk , yet strong enough to protect the delicate contents of life : the cell 's watery cytoplasm , genetic material , organelles , and all the molecules it needs to survive .	cell membranes are ________ permeable .	cell membranes are ________ permeable .
cell membranes are structures of contradictions . these oily films are hundreds of times thinner than a strand of spider silk , yet strong enough to protect the delicate contents of life : the cell 's watery cytoplasm , genetic material , organelles , and all the molecules it needs to survive .	cell membranes are selectively permeable , meaning they let some things in but keep others out . why might a cell want to do this ? what kinds of things would a cell want to keep out ?	cell membranes are selectively permeable , meaning they let some things in but keep others out . why might a cell want to do this ? what kinds of things would a cell want to keep out ?
as if that were n't enough , pi is used in particle physics experiments , such as those using the large hadron collider , not only due to its round shape , but more subtly , because of the orbits in which tiny particles move . scientists have even used pi to prove the illusive notion that light functions as both a particle and an electromagnetic wave , and , perhaps most impressively , to calculate the density of our entire universe , which , by the way , still has infinitely less stuff in it than the total number of digits in pi .	perhaps most impressively , pi has been used to ________ .	perhaps most impressively , pi has been used to ________ .
all three are examples of invasive species , organisms harmful not because of what they are , but where they happen to be . the kudzu vine , for example , had grown quality in its native east asia , eaten by various insects and dying off during the cold winters . but its fortunes changed when it was imported into the southeastern united states for porch decoration and cattle feed .	the kudzu vine was able to spread rapidly due to the region 's lack of :	the kudzu vine was able to spread rapidly due to the region 's lack of :
and then the cpu has to ask memory for the program for the button , which means that the cpu needs the monitor program again to show the video associated with the button , and so it goes . and let 's just say there are a lot of programs involved before you even see the button on the screen light up when you clicked it . so , just the simple task of clicking your mouse means visiting all of the critical components of your computer 's architecture : peripherals , the basic input-output system , the cpu , programs , and memory , and not one gremlin .	what are some of the programs that your computer is running even when you ’ re not touching it ?	what are some of the programs that your computer is running even when you ’ re not touching it ?
wodehouse . so who exactly is sherlock holmes ? who 's the real great detective , and where do we find him ?	what was sherlock holmes ’ occupation ?	what was sherlock holmes ’ occupation ?
wodehouse . so who exactly is sherlock holmes ? who 's the real great detective , and where do we find him ?	who was sherlock holmes ’ s best friend and working partner ?	who was sherlock holmes ’ s best friend and working partner ?
wodehouse . so who exactly is sherlock holmes ? who 's the real great detective , and where do we find him ?	in the 19th century , detectives such as sherlock holmes were starting to use scientific techniques to help them investigate crime . can you think what the techniques might have included ?	in the 19th century , detectives such as sherlock holmes were starting to use scientific techniques to help them investigate crime . can you think what the techniques might have included ?
wodehouse . so who exactly is sherlock holmes ? who 's the real great detective , and where do we find him ?	sherlock holmes has featured in many film adaptations . what sherlock holmes adaptations are you aware of and how do they differ from each other ?	sherlock holmes has featured in many film adaptations . what sherlock holmes adaptations are you aware of and how do they differ from each other ?
wodehouse . so who exactly is sherlock holmes ? who 's the real great detective , and where do we find him ?	who is sherlock holmes ’ s arch enemy ?	who is sherlock holmes ’ s arch enemy ?
wodehouse . so who exactly is sherlock holmes ? who 's the real great detective , and where do we find him ?	what musical instrument does sherlock holmes play ?	what musical instrument does sherlock holmes play ?
and the idea that you go to heaven and get 72 virgins is not in the quran ; it ’ s in a terribly sourced hadith so it is my great regret to inform you , 72 virgins , that in the eyes of almost all muslims you do not exist . best wishes , john green one more thing about islam : like christianity and judaism , it has a body of law . you might have heard of it - it ’ s called sharia .	after watching the video , identify some of the similarities and differences that exist between islam & other religions ( christianity , judaism , etc ) .	after watching the video , identify some of the similarities and differences that exist between islam & other religions ( christianity , judaism , etc ) .
but engineers and researchers often require accuracy on microscopic levels with a high certainty of being right every time . factories and labs increase precision through better equipment and more detailed procedures . these improvements can be expensive , so managers must decide what the acceptable uncertainty for each project is .	which method would most likely increase the precision of the measurements you can take ?	which method would most likely increase the precision of the measurements you can take ?
if other forecasters have a poorer track record on those same two topics , then we should n't trust them as much . so whenever you 're considering whether to trust the testimony of some authority , the first question to ask yourself is , `` what 's their track record on this topic ? '' and notice that you can apply the very same lesson to yourself .	which of the following factors is most important in deciding whether or not to trust someone ’ s testimony ?	which of the following factors is most important in deciding whether or not to trust someone ’ s testimony ?
the goal of the two-month process is to preserve ani 's body as an ideal form with which his spirit can eventually reunite . but first , that spirit must pass through the duat , or underworld . this is a realm of vast caverns , lakes of fire , and magical gates , all guarded by fearsome beasts - snakes , crocodiles , and half-human monstrosities with names like `` he who dances in blood . ''	after mummification is complete , the spirit first passes through the underworld . what are some of the dangers that a person , such as ani , must face here ?	after mummification is complete , the spirit first passes through the underworld . what are some of the dangers that a person , such as ani , must face here ?
these systems are about the thickness of a human hair . they can measure the types of information that we want , things such as : bodily movement , bodily temperature , electrical rhythms of the body and so forth . we can also engineer these systems , so they can integrate energy sources , and can have wireless transmission capabilities .	what are some of the things that the temporary tattoo todd coleman and his team created can track in the body ?	what are some of the things that the temporary tattoo todd coleman and his team created can track in the body ?
as we all know -- ( laughter ) we are in the middle of another presidential election , hotly contested , as you can see . ( laughter ) but what you may not know is that american voter turnout ranks near the bottom of all countries in the entire world , 138th of 172 nations . this is the world 's most famous democracy .	out of 172 nations , what does america rank for voter turnout ?	out of 172 nations , what does america rank for voter turnout ?
but as this cartoon shows you of the first test for arsenic , these were very primitive tests , so , that our heroes really have to figure this out as they go in the 1920s . gettler , for instance , was the first person in the world to know how to tell if someone was drunk at time of death . he figured that out right about 1930 and he said later it took him 6,000 brains from the morgue to get to the point that he could get to that answer .	in 1930 , geller was the first person in the world to determine if a person was intoxicated at time of death . how 'd he do it ?	in 1930 , geller was the first person in the world to determine if a person was intoxicated at time of death . how 'd he do it ?
the connections between mythical stories and the geology of the regions where they originated teach us that mythology and science are actually two sides of the same coin . both are rooted in explaining and understanding the world . the key difference is that where mythology uses gods , monsters and magic , science uses measurements , records and experiments .	describe how the practice of creating myths is similar to the practice of studying the natural world in a scientific manner .	describe how the practice of creating myths is similar to the practice of studying the natural world in a scientific manner .
can ’ t log off ? surprisingly , 5-10 % of internet users are actually unable to control how much time they spend online . though it ’ s a psychological addiction as opposed to a substance addiction , brain scans of these people actually show a similar impairment of regions that those with drug dependence have . specifically , there is a clear degradation of white matter in the regions that control emotional processing , attention and decision making . because social media provides immediate rewards with very little effort required , your brain begin to rewire itself , making you desire these stimulations .	brain scans taken from individuals who exhibit an psychological addiction to online behaviors show a degradation in the white matter that control the following :	brain scans taken from individuals who exhibit an psychological addiction to online behaviors show a degradation in the white matter that control the following :
the other one is one which i think is going to be difficult to prove to a skeptic but i call it existential intelligence . and existential intelligence is the intelligence of big questions . philosophical questions , artistic questions .	what is existential intelligence ?	what is existential intelligence ?
to make matters worse , justin is a boy , meaning he 's got more testosterone than girls . testosterone is another hormone that increases oil production in the skin . so , his already oily skin , together with a boost in oil and inflammation from stress , is the perfect environment for bacteria to swell , swell , swell up into a major zit .	what male hormone also increases oil production ?	what male hormone also increases oil production ?
although this process is typically reserved for females , in some species , like dayak fruit bats , goats , and even cats , males can also lactate . milk drinkers worldwide consume dairy from buffalo , goats , sheeps , camels , yaks , horses , and cows . almost all of these species are ruminants , a type of mammal with four-chambered stomachs that yield large quantities of milk .	fermented dairy drinks are particularly popular in south east asia compared to other parts of the world . what is one of the main reasons these drinks are consumed more in south east asia ?	fermented dairy drinks are particularly popular in south east asia compared to other parts of the world . what is one of the main reasons these drinks are consumed more in south east asia ?
ok , i 'm going to be stumped on this . anybody knows why we vote on tuesdays ? jacob soboroff : do you happen to know ?	think about the logistical needs to be able to vote on tuesdays ? how does voting on tuesdays impact or not impact different demographics of people ?	think about the logistical needs to be able to vote on tuesdays ? how does voting on tuesdays impact or not impact different demographics of people ?
ok , i 'm going to be stumped on this . anybody knows why we vote on tuesdays ? jacob soboroff : do you happen to know ?	why do americans vote on tuesdays ?	why do americans vote on tuesdays ?
and they 're individually expendable , meaning that we could send them into environments that are too risky for a billion dollar rocket or probe . several hundred small spacecraft are already orbiting the earth , taking pictures of outer space , and collecting data on things , like the behavior of bacteria in the earth 's atmosphere and magnetic signals that could help predict earthquakes . but imagine how much more we could learn if they could fly beyond earth 's orbit .	the current microsatellites do n't have their own propulsion systems , gathering data on earth , making atmospheric observations and have been useful in communication and space imaging . what are some other kinds of data that these microsatellites can capture ?	the current microsatellites do n't have their own propulsion systems , gathering data on earth , making atmospheric observations and have been useful in communication and space imaging . what are some other kinds of data that these microsatellites can capture ?
the original september date was kept , partly to avoid the more radical associations of may 1st . canada also created its labor day in 1894 . but , in spite of this new holiday , it would be a long time before the changes that workers wanted became a reality .	the american president who signed labor day into law in 1894 was :	the american president who signed labor day into law in 1894 was :
the original september date was kept , partly to avoid the more radical associations of may 1st . canada also created its labor day in 1894 . but , in spite of this new holiday , it would be a long time before the changes that workers wanted became a reality .	list three changes that happened as a result of labor day .	list three changes that happened as a result of labor day .
the tiny oocyte moves along the fallopian tube . a pregnancy can only occur if the egg is fertilized by a sperm cell within the next 24 hours . otherwise , the egg 's escapade ends , and the window for pregnancy closes for that month .	an egg has _____ to be fertilized .	an egg has _____ to be fertilized .
today we 're talking about weird materials that we use in space , in robots and in your mouth . i 'm talking about shape memory alloys . like the name says , these are metals that remember different shapes .	artists are always looking for cool new materials to work with . if you were to make a sculpture with shape memory wires and wanted them to change shape , what would you use to do that ?	artists are always looking for cool new materials to work with . if you were to make a sculpture with shape memory wires and wanted them to change shape , what would you use to do that ?
today we 're talking about weird materials that we use in space , in robots and in your mouth . i 'm talking about shape memory alloys . like the name says , these are metals that remember different shapes .	how do the different phases in shape memory alloys differ ?	how do the different phases in shape memory alloys differ ?
today we 're talking about weird materials that we use in space , in robots and in your mouth . i 'm talking about shape memory alloys . like the name says , these are metals that remember different shapes .	the shape memory wire changes shape mostly by	the shape memory wire changes shape mostly by
today we 're talking about weird materials that we use in space , in robots and in your mouth . i 'm talking about shape memory alloys . like the name says , these are metals that remember different shapes .	some thermostats that control the temperature of a room by shutting off the heat use shape memory alloys . how do you think they work ?	some thermostats that control the temperature of a room by shutting off the heat use shape memory alloys . how do you think they work ?
today we 're talking about weird materials that we use in space , in robots and in your mouth . i 'm talking about shape memory alloys . like the name says , these are metals that remember different shapes .	which of the medical devices are not used with shape memory alloys ?	which of the medical devices are not used with shape memory alloys ?
and later studies have confirmed that our emotional well-being , how often and how intensely we feel things like joy , sorrow , anxiety , or anger , do n't seem to improve with wealth or status beyond a certain point . this has to do with a phenomenon known as hedonic adaptation , or the hedonic treadmill . it describes our tendency to adapt to new situations to maintain a stable emotional equilibrium .	the hedonic treadmill :	the hedonic treadmill :
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby the healthy liver cell divides only when it 's stressed . the healthy hair cell divides frequently . and the cancer cell divides even more frequently and recklessly .	what was used to denote healthy and unhealthy cells ? why ?	what was used to denote healthy and unhealthy cells ? why ?
brca1 belongs to a class of genes called tumor suppressor genes . tumor suppressor genes are involved in regulating how fast a cell divides . normally , cell division follows an orderly process called the cell cycle , which is basically the life cycle of a cell . within the cell cycle is a series of checkpoints , where proteins , such as the one produced by brca1 , regulate how fast the cell may proceed .	how might a cell use a combination of proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes to regulate cell division ? under what conditions might a cell want to divide faster ?	how might a cell use a combination of proto-oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes to regulate cell division ? under what conditions might a cell want to divide faster ?
even the body 's aches make you more sensitive , drawing attention to infected cuts that might be worsening , or even causing your condition . in addition to physical symptoms , sickness can also make you irritable , sad , and confused . that 's because cytokines and prostaglandin can reach even higher structures in your brain , disrupting the activity of neurotransmitters , like glutamate , endorphins , serotonin , and dopamine .	manifestations of sickness behavior include :	manifestations of sickness behavior include :
even the body 's aches make you more sensitive , drawing attention to infected cuts that might be worsening , or even causing your condition . in addition to physical symptoms , sickness can also make you irritable , sad , and confused . that 's because cytokines and prostaglandin can reach even higher structures in your brain , disrupting the activity of neurotransmitters , like glutamate , endorphins , serotonin , and dopamine .	which of the following neurotransmitters are affected by sickness ?	which of the following neurotransmitters are affected by sickness ?
let 's take our example . what makes a ball bounce ? the action we 're talking about here is a result of interacting physical forces , a moving ball 's tendency to stay in motion , or its force of momentum vs. the constant force of gravity bringing it back down earth .	the forces of ________ and ________ are what determines the spacing of the animated ball .	the forces of ________ and ________ are what determines the spacing of the animated ball .
in order to understand how artists achieve that effect , we first have to understand how perspective drawings work in general . imagine looking out a window . light bounces off objects and into your eye , intersecting the window along the way .	parallel lines leading away from the window will have projected images on the window that :	parallel lines leading away from the window will have projected images on the window that :
in order to understand how artists achieve that effect , we first have to understand how perspective drawings work in general . imagine looking out a window . light bounces off objects and into your eye , intersecting the window along the way .	how many places are there to place our eye for a projected image on the window to exactly match up with the world outside of the window ?	how many places are there to place our eye for a projected image on the window to exactly match up with the world outside of the window ?
in the 1950s , a group of ranchers in idaho were baffled when their sheep gave birth to lambs with a singular deformity . mystified by these cyclops sheep , they called in scientists from the u.s. department of agriculture to investigate . the researchers hypothesized that the pregnant ewes had snacked on poisonous birth defect-causing plants .	if you were a scientist called in to investigate the cyclops sheep , what questions would you ask the ranchers ?	if you were a scientist called in to investigate the cyclops sheep , what questions would you ask the ranchers ?
so what is this slippery solid , and why does n't anything stick to it ? teflon is a brand name for polytetrafluoroethylene , or ptfe . it was stumbled upon accidentally in 1938 by a 27-year-old american chemist named roy plunkett while he was trying to develop a non-toxic refrigerant fluid for dupont , a chemicals company .	what makes ptfe a.k.a . teflon non-stick ?	what makes ptfe a.k.a . teflon non-stick ?
as populations rise , alongside rates of industrialization and development , our energy decisions grow more and more important . access to energy impacts health , education , political power , and socioeconomic status . if we improve our energy efficiency , we can use our natural resources more responsibly and improve quality of life for everyone .	energy choice impacts the quality of an individual and society by ________ .	energy choice impacts the quality of an individual and society by ________ .
as populations rise , alongside rates of industrialization and development , our energy decisions grow more and more important . access to energy impacts health , education , political power , and socioeconomic status . if we improve our energy efficiency , we can use our natural resources more responsibly and improve quality of life for everyone .	explain how energy impacts the quality of life for individuals and society .	explain how energy impacts the quality of life for individuals and society .
as populations rise , alongside rates of industrialization and development , our energy decisions grow more and more important . access to energy impacts health , education , political power , and socioeconomic status . if we improve our energy efficiency , we can use our natural resources more responsibly and improve quality of life for everyone .	brainstorm some of the impacts you think your generation ’ s energy consumption is having today and on tomorrow ’ s future generations .	brainstorm some of the impacts you think your generation ’ s energy consumption is having today and on tomorrow ’ s future generations .
meanwhile , your ear is telling your brain you 're accelerating . wait , your ear ? your ear has another important function besides hearing .	what does the ear 's vestibular system do ?	what does the ear 's vestibular system do ?
energy moves in and out of these systems , and during any energy transfer between them , some is lost to the surroundings , as heat , light , sound , vibration , or movement . our planet 's energy comes from internal and external sources . geothermal energy from radioactive isotopes and rotational energy from the spinning of the earth are internal sources of energy , while the sun is the major external source , driving certain systems , like our weather and climate . sunlight warms the surface and atmosphere in varying amounts , and this causes convection , producing winds and influencing ocean currents .	what is a source of energy that is internal to the earth systems ?	what is a source of energy that is internal to the earth systems ?
a ravenous snake that is capable of devouring an alligator . rabbit populations that eat themselves into starvation . these are n't horror movie concepts .	one of the main problems caused by both the burmese python and european rabbit is :	one of the main problems caused by both the burmese python and european rabbit is :
by the professor 's calculations , the zombies will catch up to you in just over 17 minutes , so you only have that much time to get everyone across and cut the ropes . unfortunately , the bridge can only hold two people at a time . to make matters worse , it 's so dark out that you can barely see , and the old lantern you grabbed on your way only illuminates a tiny area .	how many people can the bridge hold at a time ?	how many people can the bridge hold at a time ?
o polônio foi outro elemento descoberto por madame curie , a madame curie ela polonesa , mas fez boa parte da pesquisa , se não toda , em paris . polônio é um nome por causa da polônia polônio é um elemento que tem sido não muito importante , até a invenção da bomba atômica , e o polônio tornou-se um material absolutamente crucial pq é usado , ou foi usado , como um gatilho no centro da bomba atômica original .	where was madame curie born ?	where was madame curie born ?
o polônio foi outro elemento descoberto por madame curie , a madame curie ela polonesa , mas fez boa parte da pesquisa , se não toda , em paris . polônio é um nome por causa da polônia polônio é um elemento que tem sido não muito importante , até a invenção da bomba atômica , e o polônio tornou-se um material absolutamente crucial pq é usado , ou foi usado , como um gatilho no centro da bomba atômica original .	when did marie and pierre curie discover the element polonium ?	when did marie and pierre curie discover the element polonium ?
o polônio foi outro elemento descoberto por madame curie , a madame curie ela polonesa , mas fez boa parte da pesquisa , se não toda , em paris . polônio é um nome por causa da polônia polônio é um elemento que tem sido não muito importante , até a invenção da bomba atômica , e o polônio tornou-se um material absolutamente crucial pq é usado , ou foi usado , como um gatilho no centro da bomba atômica original .	polonium is named after which country ?	polonium is named after which country ?
o polônio foi outro elemento descoberto por madame curie , a madame curie ela polonesa , mas fez boa parte da pesquisa , se não toda , em paris . polônio é um nome por causa da polônia polônio é um elemento que tem sido não muito importante , até a invenção da bomba atômica , e o polônio tornou-se um material absolutamente crucial pq é usado , ou foi usado , como um gatilho no centro da bomba atômica original .	what is the half-life of polonium ?	what is the half-life of polonium ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby mysteries of vernacular : fizzle , to end weakly or to fail , to die out . the definition of fizzle likely links back to the old english word fist , which meant stink . in the mid-fifteenth century , fist developed into the verb fisten , to break wind , which eventually lead to the modern word feisty , but that 's another story .	what was the original meaning of the word fist ?	what was the original meaning of the word fist ?
secured to this zone are more y-shaped antibodies that will also stick to hcg on one of its five binding sites . scientists call this type of test a sandwich assay . if hcg is present , it gets sandwiched between the ab1 enzyme and ab2 , and sticks to the test zone , allowing the attached dye-activating enzyme to do its job and create a visible pattern .	can you think of a medical test that does n't currently exist in a ready-to-use form but would be helpful to a lot of people ? what features should it have ?	can you think of a medical test that does n't currently exist in a ready-to-use form but would be helpful to a lot of people ? what features should it have ?
so here you can see this very dark black metal , very fine spongy-type material , at the bottom of this glass vial . again , osmium has played some role in my life because i did some of the early work in my doctorate involved osmium compound , it was ruthenium and osmium and iron . the ruthenium compound was orange , the osmium compound a rather fetching pale yellow and the iron compound a very dark green .	what is the meaning of the greek word “ osme ” after which the element osmium was named ? the professor explained that it is a characteristic of oso4 .	what is the meaning of the greek word “ osme ” after which the element osmium was named ? the professor explained that it is a characteristic of oso4 .
so here you can see this very dark black metal , very fine spongy-type material , at the bottom of this glass vial . again , osmium has played some role in my life because i did some of the early work in my doctorate involved osmium compound , it was ruthenium and osmium and iron . the ruthenium compound was orange , the osmium compound a rather fetching pale yellow and the iron compound a very dark green .	osmium is the densest element in the periodic table . what is its density ?	osmium is the densest element in the periodic table . what is its density ?
and then we get the peak of introspection in `` the confessions of saint augustine , '' about four centuries after christ . and this was very important , because saint augustine had been recognized by scholars , philologists , historians , as one of the founders of introspection . actually , some believe him to be the father of modern psychology .	who was recognized by scholars and historians as the father of introspection ?	who was recognized by scholars and historians as the father of introspection ?
did n't say anything about climbing a ... voice : `` who 's there ? '' manny brot : `` manny brot , private eye . '' voice : `` what are you doing here ? ''	how many times did manny have to pinch the snowflake ( the answer to the second riddle ) ?	how many times did manny have to pinch the snowflake ( the answer to the second riddle ) ?
did n't say anything about climbing a ... voice : `` who 's there ? '' manny brot : `` manny brot , private eye . '' voice : `` what are you doing here ? ''	what are the differences between the world before and after manny opens dora ’ s box ? what might that signify ?	what are the differences between the world before and after manny opens dora ’ s box ? what might that signify ?
and , at the same time , the opposite virtues of falsehood , covetousness , worldly flesh , and the devil became the antagonists . the morality plays were allegorical stories in which these characters battled for the control of the soul . audiences loved the immoral characters , and spectators were encouraged to interact with the actors .	if you were to write an allegorical morality play , what would be the names of your characters ?	if you were to write an allegorical morality play , what would be the names of your characters ?
as soon as you jump , gravity is already pulling you back down . using what we know about gravity , we can derive a fairly simple equation that models hang time . this equation states that the height of a falling object above a surface is equal to the object 's initial height from the surface plus its initial velocity multiplied by how many seconds it 's been in the air , plus half of the gravitational acceleration multiplied by the square of the number of seconds spent in the air .	which is a possible equation that could model the relationship between height and hang time for someone on venus ?	which is a possible equation that could model the relationship between height and hang time for someone on venus ?
as soon as you jump , gravity is already pulling you back down . using what we know about gravity , we can derive a fairly simple equation that models hang time . this equation states that the height of a falling object above a surface is equal to the object 's initial height from the surface plus its initial velocity multiplied by how many seconds it 's been in the air , plus half of the gravitational acceleration multiplied by the square of the number of seconds spent in the air .	which equation below correctly represents michael jordan 's hang time of .92 seconds ?	which equation below correctly represents michael jordan 's hang time of .92 seconds ?
as soon as you jump , gravity is already pulling you back down . using what we know about gravity , we can derive a fairly simple equation that models hang time . this equation states that the height of a falling object above a surface is equal to the object 's initial height from the surface plus its initial velocity multiplied by how many seconds it 's been in the air , plus half of the gravitational acceleration multiplied by the square of the number of seconds spent in the air .	what about a hang time of two seconds ? what would the equation of this jump look like ?	what about a hang time of two seconds ? what would the equation of this jump look like ?
it 's not that l. frank baum did n't have a thesaurus , it 's that in most cases $ 10 words fail . would aerosmith have had a hit with `` ambulate this direction ? '' probably not .	in the video , the $ 10-word-title translation of aerosmith ’ s “ walk this way ” is	in the video , the $ 10-word-title translation of aerosmith ’ s “ walk this way ” is
comedy is the defiance of definition because definitions sometimes need defiance . consider definition itself . when we define , we use language to set borders around a thing that we 've perceived in the whirling chaos of existence .	what is a definition ?	what is a definition ?
and it 's escalating . cheaper garments and the public 's willingness to buy boosted global production from 1994 to 2014 by 400 % to around 80 billion garments each year . finally , in a consumer 's home , the t-shirt goes through one of the most resource-intensive phases of its lifetime .	the environment has been affected by the creation of cheaper garments and the willingness of the public to buy them . how ?	the environment has been affected by the creation of cheaper garments and the willingness of the public to buy them . how ?
another of its tasks is to link together independent clauses . these are sentences that can stand on their own , but when connected by semicolons , look and sound better because they 're related in some way . `` semicolons were once a great mystery to me .	which of these is better , and why do you think so ? a. i thoroughly enjoyed the scenery in paris . the eiffel tower is especially beautiful . b. i thoroughly enjoyed the scenery in paris ; the eiffel tower is especially beautiful .	which of these is better , and why do you think so ? a. i thoroughly enjoyed the scenery in paris . the eiffel tower is especially beautiful . b. i thoroughly enjoyed the scenery in paris ; the eiffel tower is especially beautiful .
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : jessica ruby there are still lots of things about space that we may never be able to answer , like is time travel possible ? or are aliens living somewhere else in the milky way ?	research how astronauts are able to be protected while they live and travel in space .	research how astronauts are able to be protected while they live and travel in space .
the successful joint mission , known as apollo-soyuz , in which an american apollo spacecraft docked with a soviet soyuz craft and the two crews met , shook hands , and exchanged gifts , marked the end of the space race in 1975 . so , in the end , what was the point of this whole space race ? was it just a massive waste of time ?	what marked the end of the space race ?	what marked the end of the space race ?
some of whom , i remind our court , wanted to exterminate them outright . it was a different time . '' `` and yet , even in this different time , there were many in congress and even the supreme court who saw how wrong the removal act was and loudly opposed it , were there not ? ''	think of a contemporary political figure in the world today . how are his/her actions viewed as both “ heroic ” and “ villainous ” at the same time ? how do you think he/she will be viewed in 10 years ? how about in 100 years ?	think of a contemporary political figure in the world today . how are his/her actions viewed as both “ heroic ” and “ villainous ” at the same time ? how do you think he/she will be viewed in 10 years ? how about in 100 years ?
wherever there is an object , there is an opportunity to make it come to life . when humans are used in stop motion animation , that 's called pixilation , a term coined in the mid-twentieth century , well before the word pixel was a part of our vocabulary . but these sorts of special effects are as old as the art of film making , and thanks to today 's technologies , can be reproduced in your very own kitchen .	what is pixilation ?	what is pixilation ?
the anti-hero , however , at best demonstrates a few underdeveloped traits , at worst , is totally inept . the story of the anti-hero usually unfolds something like this . the anti-hero initially conforms , ignorantly accepting the established views , a typical , unquestioning , brainwashed member of society .	which does the antihero usually do ?	which does the antihero usually do ?
the anti-hero , however , at best demonstrates a few underdeveloped traits , at worst , is totally inept . the story of the anti-hero usually unfolds something like this . the anti-hero initially conforms , ignorantly accepting the established views , a typical , unquestioning , brainwashed member of society .	write a brief synopsis of a story in which an antihero is the protagonist . be sure to use descriptors that illustrate why the protagonist is an antihero .	write a brief synopsis of a story in which an antihero is the protagonist . be sure to use descriptors that illustrate why the protagonist is an antihero .
ok. let 's try and wrap our minds around this . what happens when you drop a rock off a cliff ? it falls to the earth .	when you drop a rock from a cliff , which of the following happens ?	when you drop a rock from a cliff , which of the following happens ?
studies have shown , though , that this is not the case . to make matters worse , it seems the moon illusion disappears entirely if you just bend over and look at the moon between your legs . now , this is just getting ridiculous !	what is the moon illusion ?	what is the moon illusion ?
studies have shown , though , that this is not the case . to make matters worse , it seems the moon illusion disappears entirely if you just bend over and look at the moon between your legs . now , this is just getting ridiculous !	what effect could the atmosphere have in contributing to the moon illusion ?	what effect could the atmosphere have in contributing to the moon illusion ?
studies have shown , though , that this is not the case . to make matters worse , it seems the moon illusion disappears entirely if you just bend over and look at the moon between your legs . now , this is just getting ridiculous !	what is the name given to the most promising explanation of the moon illusion ?	what is the name given to the most promising explanation of the moon illusion ?
studies have shown , though , that this is not the case . to make matters worse , it seems the moon illusion disappears entirely if you just bend over and look at the moon between your legs . now , this is just getting ridiculous !	what would it take to solve the mystery of the moon illusion once and for all ?	what would it take to solve the mystery of the moon illusion once and for all ?
it 's a mathematical expression of how happy you 'd be with each other , based on what we know . now , why does the algorithm multiply , as opposed to , say , average the two match scores together , and do the square-root business ? in general , this formula is called the geometric mean .	why does the algorithm multiply as opposed to average the two match scores together ?	why does the algorithm multiply as opposed to average the two match scores together ?
annually , we sell and buy two billion t-shirts globally , making it one of the most common garments in the world . but how and where is the average t-shirt made , and what 's its environmental impact ? clothing items can vary a lot , but a typical t-shirt begins its life on a farm in america , china , or india where cotton seeds are sown , irrigated and grown for the fluffy bolls they produce .	what are some ways to decrease the environmental impact of your fashion ?	what are some ways to decrease the environmental impact of your fashion ?
the main challenge was to find the right filament for printing clothes with . so what is a filament ? filament is the material you feed the printer with .	what is filament ?	what is filament ?
the modifying phrase in this sentence seems unrelated to anything else , and so we 're clueless about who the chocolate-loving criminal could possibly be . giving the modifier something to modify will solve the problem . then there 's another group called the squinting modifiers because they 're stuck between two things and could feasibly refer to either .	what 's the main problem with using modifiers incorrectly ?	what 's the main problem with using modifiers incorrectly ?
explorers soon brought pumpkins back to europe . it was only 1697 when a frenchman incorporated a pumpkin into the popular folktale we know as cinderella . that was actually a very specific variety of pumpkin - a red pumpkin – and there are lots of other colors .	in 1697 a frenchman incorporated a pumpkin into what famous children 's folk tale ?	in 1697 a frenchman incorporated a pumpkin into what famous children 's folk tale ?
traveling down through the water column , pressure increases and light begins to wane . at 200 meters , photosynthesis stops and temperature decreases from surface temperatures by up to 20 degrees celsius . by 1000 meters , normal sunlight has disappeared altogether .	at which depth does photosynthesis generally stop ?	at which depth does photosynthesis generally stop ?
it 's well known that the brain 's left hemisphere is more dominant and analytical in logical processes , while the right hemisphere is more active in emotional and social ones , though this is a matter of degree , not an absolute split . the fact that language involves both types of functions while lateralization develops gradually with age , has lead to the critical period hypothesis . according to this theory , children learn languages more easily because the plasticity of their developing brains lets them use both hemispheres in language acquisition , while in most adults , language is lateralized to one hemisphere , usually the left .	the fact that language involves functions both typical of the left and right hemispheres while lateralization develops gradually with age has led to which hypothesis ?	the fact that language involves functions both typical of the left and right hemispheres while lateralization develops gradually with age has led to which hypothesis ?
well , in fact , their families are very similar to ours . and family is extremely important to elephants . they grow up in very tight-knit families and they have extended families .	when an extended family group of elephants meets up at a waterhole when they haven ’ t seen each other in a while ________ .	when an extended family group of elephants meets up at a waterhole when they haven ’ t seen each other in a while ________ .
well , in fact , their families are very similar to ours . and family is extremely important to elephants . they grow up in very tight-knit families and they have extended families .	when male elephants grow up and leave their family as adults , they ________ .	when male elephants grow up and leave their family as adults , they ________ .
in 1776 , alessandro volta , decades before he would eventually invent batteries , discovered methane . now , the chemical formula of methane is ch4 . and this formula tells us that every molecule of methane is made up of one carbon and four hydrogen atoms , but it does n't tell us what 's bonded to what or how they atoms are arranged in 3d space . from their electron configurations , we know that carbon can bond with up to four other atoms and that each hydrogen can only bond with one other atom .	the chemical formula of a molecule tell us ________ .	the chemical formula of a molecule tell us ________ .
however , grouping photoreceptors loses details in the image , as fine details require a fine grid of photoreceptors , each detecting photons from one small point in space . the trick is to balance the need for photons with the loss of detail to still find their flowers . whether eyes are slow , enormous , shiny , or coarse , it 's the combination of these biological adaptations that gives nocturnal animals their unique visual powers .	what other senses could animals use to support a night active lifestyle ( where they need to find food , find mates , hide or escape from predators , and navigate their environment ) ?	what other senses could animals use to support a night active lifestyle ( where they need to find food , find mates , hide or escape from predators , and navigate their environment ) ?
still , like death , taxes are inevitable . when some mummies were transported , they were taxed as salted fish .	some mummies were taxed as :	some mummies were taxed as :
in medieval times , alchemists tried to achieve the seemingly impossible . they wanted to transform lowly lead into gleaming gold .	physicists design experiments to test hypotheses and then execute them in controlled fashion . astronomers can only observe the results of experiments that nature has performed for them . which of these approaches to science appeals to you most ?	physicists design experiments to test hypotheses and then execute them in controlled fashion . astronomers can only observe the results of experiments that nature has performed for them . which of these approaches to science appeals to you most ?
oh it was an amazing day , we had a huge ceremony , 1000 people came here for the christening and afterwards there was cake and champagne and it was really good . element 111 has a name which is really difficult to pronounce - roentgenium which is named after rontgen the discoverer of x-rays . i just find that it is a combination of letters that people in england find difficult to pronounce .	roentgenium was named after roentgen . why is this physicist famous ?	roentgenium was named after roentgen . why is this physicist famous ?
for the first ten years of licinia 's service , she 's considered in training , learning how to be a vestal virgin . her most important duty is keeping vigil over the flame of vesta , the virgin goddess of the hearth . vesta does n't have a statue like other roman gods and goddesses .	the flame of vesta was very important to the ancient romans . so much so that the most important duty of the vestals was to take turns keeping vigil over the flame to make sure that it continued to burn . what other reasons can you come up with for why fire was important in the ancient world ?	the flame of vesta was very important to the ancient romans . so much so that the most important duty of the vestals was to take turns keeping vigil over the flame to make sure that it continued to burn . what other reasons can you come up with for why fire was important in the ancient world ?
interestingly , even though we ca n't express irrational numbers as ratios of integers , it is possible to precisely plot some of them on the number line . take root 2 . all we need to do is form a right triangle with two sides each measuring one unit .	you have seen the proof of how the square root of 2 is irrational . in a similar way , is it possible to prove that the square root of 3 is irrational ?	you have seen the proof of how the square root of 2 is irrational . in a similar way , is it possible to prove that the square root of 3 is irrational ?
they ’ re also rogues -- instead of being all nestled together like in your other organ systems , these guys are scattered all over the place , from your brain to your throat , to your kidneys , to your genitals . a gland is a just any structure that makes and secretes a hormone . and the master gland in your body is the pituitary , which produces many hormones that signal other glands -- like the thyroid , parathyroid , adrenal , and pineal glands -- to make their own hormones .	a ( n ) _____ is any structure that makes and secretes a hormone .	a ( n ) _____ is any structure that makes and secretes a hormone .
this is a branch of science known as biological anthropology . it allows researchers to piece together details about ancient individuals and identify historical events that affected whole populations . when researchers uncover a skeleton , some of the first clues they gather , like age and gender , lie in its morphology , which is the structure , appearance , and size of a skeleton .	interpreting skeletal features of ancient individuals to help identify past historical events is known as :	interpreting skeletal features of ancient individuals to help identify past historical events is known as :
some of them , like the one we live in , are beautiful , spiral shapes , spinning gracefully through space . when scientists first measured the motion of groups of galaxies in the 1930 's and weighed the amount of matter they contained , they were in for a surprise . they found that there 's not enough visible stuff in those groups to hold them together .	when did scientists first measure the motion of groups of moving galaxies ?	when did scientists first measure the motion of groups of moving galaxies ?
some ancient sources claim he said nothing , while others record the phrase , `` and you , child ? `` , fueling speculation that brutus may have actually been caesar 's illegitimate son . but all agree that when caesar saw brutus among his attackers , he covered his face and gave up the fight , falling to the ground after being stabbed 23 times . unfortunately for brutus , he and the other conspirators had underestimated caesar 's popularity among the roman public , many of whom saw him as an effective leader , and the senate as a corrupt aristocracy .	how many times was caesar stabbed ?	how many times was caesar stabbed ?
and it 's not just about accuracy . it 's common for people to become indignant , sometimes abusive , when they see people without visible disabilities using accessible facilities . the symbol is unfortunately creating widespread issues for the very people and families it 's meant to help .	what laws and organizations exist in your country to support/protect the rights of people with disabilities ?	what laws and organizations exist in your country to support/protect the rights of people with disabilities ?
sound familiar ? this is the classic story pattern for greek tragedy . for thousands of years , we 've spun spellbinding tales that fit this pattern , and modern storytellers around the world continue to do so .	what ancient text has influenced our understanding of tragedy ?	what ancient text has influenced our understanding of tragedy ?
the main obstacle is that the cellulose molecule , a long , connected chain of glucose sugar protected by a tough , molecular sheath , is difficult to break apart . creating cellulose-based ethanol means first unwrapping that protective sheath and then chopping up the cellulose into its individual glucose molecule . only once we have unpacked each glucose molecule , can we begin fermentation .	from what is cellulose made ?	from what is cellulose made ?
the main obstacle is that the cellulose molecule , a long , connected chain of glucose sugar protected by a tough , molecular sheath , is difficult to break apart . creating cellulose-based ethanol means first unwrapping that protective sheath and then chopping up the cellulose into its individual glucose molecule . only once we have unpacked each glucose molecule , can we begin fermentation .	what must we do to cellulose before we can ferment it ?	what must we do to cellulose before we can ferment it ?
but because caffeine is not adenosine , it does n't turn these neuroreceptors on . this is called competitive inhibition . caffeine competes with adenosine to bind with the same receptors , and because caffeine is bound , adenosine can not bind and its effects are inhibited .	what is competitive inhibition ? what example of competitive inhibition is given in the video ?	what is competitive inhibition ? what example of competitive inhibition is given in the video ?
by strategically annexing the city of timbuktu , and reestablishing power over the city of gao , he gained control over important trade routes between the mediterranean and the west african coast , continuing a period of expansion , which dramatically increased mali 's size . the territory of the mali empire was rich in natural resources , such as gold and salt . the world first witnessed the extent of mansa musa 's wealth in 1324 when he took his pilgrimage to mecca .	select the natural resources that the mali empire was most known for .	select the natural resources that the mali empire was most known for .
those estimates are based on factors like average weight , physical activity and muscle mass . so does that mean everyone should shoot for around 2000 calories ? not necessarily .	true or false : everyone should eat exactly 2,000 calories a day if female , and 2,500 calories a day if male .	true or false : everyone should eat exactly 2,000 calories a day if female , and 2,500 calories a day if male .
in fact , so many bodies were dug up that the empress of austria sent her physician around to disprove the vampire stories , and she even established a law prohibiting grave tampering . still , even after the vampire hunts had died down , the stories of legends survived in local superstition . this led to works of literature , such as polidori 's `` the vampyre , '' the gothic novel `` carmilla , '' and , most famously , bram stoker 's `` dracula . '' although stoker incorporated historical material , like elizabeth báthory 's virgin blood baths and the brutal executions of vlad dracul , it was these local myths that inspired the main elements of his story : the transylvanian setting , using garlic to defend oneself , and the staking of the heart .	what book about a vampire did bram stoker write ?	what book about a vampire did bram stoker write ?
what changes here is our reaction to our ailment , such as perceiving less pain and not the ailment itself . or , consider the love humans have for a parent . some would argue that this love is instinctual , and they may be partially right .	to build rapport with a young child , one might consider pairing oneself with :	to build rapport with a young child , one might consider pairing oneself with :
they ’ re calling it the “ wood wide web. ” i ’ m anna , and this is gross science . the so-called wood wide web is made up of what are called “ mycorrhizal fungi. ” there are many different types of mycorrhizal fungi , but generally these little guys will grow on the roots of plants and provide them with water and nutrients—like nitrogen and phosphorus—in exchange for sugars from the plant . while they ’ re incredibly thin , the threads of the fungi can be up to 1000 times the length of a tree root .	mycorrhizal fungi grow on the roots of plants and give them nitrogen and phosphorus in exchange for what ?	mycorrhizal fungi grow on the roots of plants and give them nitrogen and phosphorus in exchange for what ?
the sun 's position indicated east and west and created low light on the ocean that made it possible to see swells directly . at night , navigators used something called a star compass , which was n't a physical object , but rather a sort of mental map . they memorized the rising and setting points of stars and constellations at different times of the year .	explain how the star compass works . what would be some of the hindrances to using this tool ?	explain how the star compass works . what would be some of the hindrances to using this tool ?
but , of course , you could also end up with more passengers , or fewer . the probability for each value is given by what 's called a binomial distribution , which peaks at the most likely outcome . now let 's look at the revenue .	the probabilities in our model are given by a :	the probabilities in our model are given by a :
ow ! in this final lesson , we 'll explore what gravity means for space-time , or rather what space-time means for gravity . until now , we 've been dealing with things moving at constant speeds , with straight world lines in space-time .	you may have learned about gravity as a force that acts instantly between two objects , pulling them together . looking back over lessons 1 , 2 and 3 , why do you think this idea doesn ’ t work in einstein ’ s space-time ?	you may have learned about gravity as a force that acts instantly between two objects , pulling them together . looking back over lessons 1 , 2 and 3 , why do you think this idea doesn ’ t work in einstein ’ s space-time ?
of course , a crowd of 6,000 people trying to speak at the same time would not have made for effective government . so the athenian system also relied on a 500 member governing council called the boule , to set the agenda and evaluate proposals , in addition to hundreds of jurors and magistrates to handle legal matters . rather than being elected or appointed , the people in these positions were chosen by lot .	how was the council of 500 , or boule , selected ?	how was the council of 500 , or boule , selected ?
interesting , somebody mentioned 1600 recently . gas was invented in 1600 by a dutch chemist called van helmont . it 's said to be the most successful ever invention of a word by a known individual .	who invented gas ?	who invented gas ?
humans have observed comets for thousands of years as their orbits have brought them within visible distance of earth . appearing throughout historical records , these mysterious lights that came out of nowhere and disappeared after a short while were thought to be ill omens of war and famine , or the wrath of gods . but recent research has revealed that comets may be even more deeply connected to humanity and our presence on earth than any of these mythical explanations suggested . when you think of our solar system , you probably imagine the nine , sorry eight , planets orbiting the sun .	ancient people viewed comets as omens of ______	ancient people viewed comets as omens of ______
too long . think about the first language you learn as a child . more importantly , think about how you learned it .	how did you learn the first language you spoke ? were you allowed to make mistakes ? how do you think those mistakes helped you learn the language ? how do you think that relates to learning to play a musical instrument ?	how did you learn the first language you spoke ? were you allowed to make mistakes ? how do you think those mistakes helped you learn the language ? how do you think that relates to learning to play a musical instrument ?
a few simple guidelines , though , can help differentiate between a diet that is beneficial in maintaining long-term health , and one that only offers temporary weight changes . here 's the first tipoff : if a diet focuses on intensely cutting back calories or on cutting out entire food groups , like fat , sugar , or carbohydrates , chances are it 's a fad diet . and another red flag is ritual , when the diet in question instructs you to only eat specific foods , prescribed combinations , or to opt for particular food substitutes , like drinks , bars , or powders .	give an example of a fad diet . what characteristic ( s ) of this diet let us know that it is a fad diet ?	give an example of a fad diet . what characteristic ( s ) of this diet let us know that it is a fad diet ?
a few simple guidelines , though , can help differentiate between a diet that is beneficial in maintaining long-term health , and one that only offers temporary weight changes . here 's the first tipoff : if a diet focuses on intensely cutting back calories or on cutting out entire food groups , like fat , sugar , or carbohydrates , chances are it 's a fad diet . and another red flag is ritual , when the diet in question instructs you to only eat specific foods , prescribed combinations , or to opt for particular food substitutes , like drinks , bars , or powders .	which of the following is a possible characteristic of a fad-diet ?	which of the following is a possible characteristic of a fad-diet ?
a few simple guidelines , though , can help differentiate between a diet that is beneficial in maintaining long-term health , and one that only offers temporary weight changes . here 's the first tipoff : if a diet focuses on intensely cutting back calories or on cutting out entire food groups , like fat , sugar , or carbohydrates , chances are it 's a fad diet . and another red flag is ritual , when the diet in question instructs you to only eat specific foods , prescribed combinations , or to opt for particular food substitutes , like drinks , bars , or powders .	which of the following is not considered a fad diet ?	which of the following is not considered a fad diet ?
`` yes , your honor . did you know it was president nixon who proposed the creation of the environmental protection agency , and signed the national environmental policy act into law ? not to mention the endangered species act , marine mammal protection act , expansion of the clean air act . ''	which of the following was not one of nixon 's environmental initiatives ?	which of the following was not one of nixon 's environmental initiatives ?
both scenarios activate areas of the brain involved in conscious decision-making and emotional responses . but in the bridge version , the emotional response is much stronger . so is activity in an area of the brain associated with processing internal conflict .	in studies of the bridge version , which of the following are mentioned in the lesson as factors influencing the decision ?	in studies of the bridge version , which of the following are mentioned in the lesson as factors influencing the decision ?
fortunately , they 're accustomed to targeting sluggish prey . meanwhile , the night is also buzzing with insects , such as hawk moths , which can see their favorite flowers in color , even on a starlit night . they achieve this by a surprising move - getting rid of details in their visual perception .	seeing at night is problematic , because there are :	seeing at night is problematic , because there are :
fortunately , they 're accustomed to targeting sluggish prey . meanwhile , the night is also buzzing with insects , such as hawk moths , which can see their favorite flowers in color , even on a starlit night . they achieve this by a surprising move - getting rid of details in their visual perception .	why do night active animals nevertheless accept these costs and limitations to be able to see at night ? what is the advantage of good night vision ?	why do night active animals nevertheless accept these costs and limitations to be able to see at night ? what is the advantage of good night vision ?
at first , only large structures like galaxies are torn apart , since space between the single objects expands very fast . next , big bodies like black holes , stars , and planets die . their gravity isn ’ t strong enough to keep them together , so they dissolve into their components .	true or false ? in the big rip scenario galaxies , black holes , stars , and planets are ripped apart and die .	true or false ? in the big rip scenario galaxies , black holes , stars , and planets are ripped apart and die .
there ’ s been big changes in our flask ! so if you look carefully you can see now that the copper wire itself is covered in very , very sharp crystals of silver which have basically become deposited on the surface . copper has now won this chemical reaction .	in the beautiful experiment pete performed , which was then converted into an amazing time-lapse by brady , we saw silver crystals precipitated on the surface of copper wire . but why does the solution turn blue ?	in the beautiful experiment pete performed , which was then converted into an amazing time-lapse by brady , we saw silver crystals precipitated on the surface of copper wire . but why does the solution turn blue ?
to stop reseparation of the fat from the water , or creaming , the mixture undergoes the high-energy pressurized process of homogenization . before milk hits the shelves , it 's also typically heat treated to reduce its level of microbes , a government-sanctioned process that raw milk enthusiasts argue may reduce milk 's nutritional worth . milk spoilage is started by microbes , which consume and break down the nutrients in milk .	to reduce the level of microbes in milk to a safe level , a process known as pasteurization is used . this involves heating milk to a temperature of approximately 72 degrees c for ____ seconds .	to reduce the level of microbes in milk to a safe level , a process known as pasteurization is used . this involves heating milk to a temperature of approximately 72 degrees c for ____ seconds .
so there are 43 quintillion possible arrangements for the cube . a few years back , some researchers borrowed computing power from google to find out that any scramble can be solved in 20 moves or less . they call it god ’ s number .	any scramble can be solved in ___ moves or less .	any scramble can be solved in ___ moves or less .
i plugged my ipad into here as well . so remember we said the axon looks like a spike . so we 're going to take a look at what one of them looks like in just a brief second .	for some people , the use of live animals ( even cockroaches ) in experiments like gage ’ s seems cruel . what evidence does gage offer that this is not the case ? what ’ s your reaction ?	for some people , the use of live animals ( even cockroaches ) in experiments like gage ’ s seems cruel . what evidence does gage offer that this is not the case ? what ’ s your reaction ?
it ’ s got a myriad of uses but perhaps the most interesting one is that it has been used to enable us to get within 1/1000th of a degree of absolute zero , which is minus 273 degrees c , which is pretty darn cold . it was just used in the components which they were using in the coils to get the temperature down . it ’ s also used in welder ’ s goggles because it ’ s quite good at filtering out harmful types of light to the human eye , so you find it ’ s in the goggle and it helps the welder be able to see what he ’ s doing .	as stephen explained , it 's thanks to a praseodymium alloy that chemists can approach the lowest possible temperature . what do we call this temperature , and how many degrees celsius does it correspond to ?	as stephen explained , it 's thanks to a praseodymium alloy that chemists can approach the lowest possible temperature . what do we call this temperature , and how many degrees celsius does it correspond to ?
that said , we can change our impressions in light of new information . behavioral researchers have identified consistent patterns that seem to guide this process of impression updating . on one hand , learning very negative , highly immoral information about someone typically has a stronger impact than learning very positive , highly moral information .	researchers have used ________ to investigate the brain regions involved in impression updating .	researchers have used ________ to investigate the brain regions involved in impression updating .
that said , we can change our impressions in light of new information . behavioral researchers have identified consistent patterns that seem to guide this process of impression updating . on one hand , learning very negative , highly immoral information about someone typically has a stronger impact than learning very positive , highly moral information .	create a brief story or scenario that describes the typical patterns of impression updating , focusing on behavior that illustrates either ability or morality .	create a brief story or scenario that describes the typical patterns of impression updating , focusing on behavior that illustrates either ability or morality .
and using a fork to pick up a piece of broccoli from a styrofoam plate without driving the fork through the plate is going to be as difficult as brain surgery . say the day comes and you get the chance to save a damsel in distress falling from a helicopter . so , you hold out your arms , hoping to catch her .	what is one way to save the girl falling from a 30-story building ?	what is one way to save the girl falling from a 30-story building ?
when cavities do develop , we use tooth fillings to fill and close off the infected area , preventing them from getting worse . the best way to avoid a cavity is still cutting down on sugar intake and practicing good oral hygiene to get rid of the bacteria and their food sources . that includes regular tooth brushing , flossing , and avoiding sugary , starchy , and sticky foods that cling to your teeth between meals .	what are some techniques you can do every day to improve oral hygiene ?	what are some techniques you can do every day to improve oral hygiene ?
by which he presumably meant that france ’ s government had gone all the way from here to here to here . as with the american revolution , it ’ s easy to conclude that france ’ s revolution wasn ’ t all that revolutionary . i mean , napoleon was basically an emperor and , in some ways , he was even more of an absolute monarch than louis xvi had been .	what factors led leaders in france to radicalize their revolution , leading it to violence and fear ?	what factors led leaders in france to radicalize their revolution , leading it to violence and fear ?
coming together to form proteins according to the instructs encoded in dna , these are the main active components in all living cells , from bacteria to blue whales . if comets are where these building blocks of life were first formed , then they are the ultimate source of life on earth , and , perhaps , some of the other places they visited as well . we know that planets orbit nearly every star in the night sky , with one in five having a planet similar to earth in size and temperature .	amino acids are vital building blocks of _____ .	amino acids are vital building blocks of _____ .
meanwhile in the medical world , blood tests are a vital tool for evaluating a person 's health , but doctors typically ca n't examine blood samples until they 've separated the solid blood cells from the liquid plasma they 're dissolved in . to do that , a powerful rotational force is exerted on the test tube , causing heavier substances with higher density , like blood cells , to move away from the rotational axis . meanwhile , lighter substances with lower density , like plasma , move to its center . the tube 's contents divide clearly , and the blood cells and liquid plasma can be tested independently .	in centrifugation , _______ substances with ______ density move away from the rotational axis , while _____ substances with ______ density move to its center .	in centrifugation , _______ substances with ______ density move away from the rotational axis , while _____ substances with ______ density move to its center .
her health and beauty treatments have been copied , and her business model is dominant . in fact , half of retail sales in america are through martha harper 's franchising idea . so the next time you enjoy a mcdonald 's hamburger or a good night 's rest at a days inn , think of martha .	the expansion of martha harper ’ s franchising idea today drives half of all retail sales in america [ 5:07 ] . this means one woman has had a really remarkable effect on america ’ s economy . so why is she relatively unknown ?	the expansion of martha harper ’ s franchising idea today drives half of all retail sales in america [ 5:07 ] . this means one woman has had a really remarkable effect on america ’ s economy . so why is she relatively unknown ?
her health and beauty treatments have been copied , and her business model is dominant . in fact , half of retail sales in america are through martha harper 's franchising idea . so the next time you enjoy a mcdonald 's hamburger or a good night 's rest at a days inn , think of martha .	how did harper provide a distinctive experience for her customers , franchise owners , and employees ? what are her other legacies , in addition to her franchising idea ?	how did harper provide a distinctive experience for her customers , franchise owners , and employees ? what are her other legacies , in addition to her franchising idea ?
in the end , space would expand faster than the speed of light . atoms would now be affected , and they would just disband . once space is expanding faster than light , no particle in the universe can interact with any other particle anymore .	what would happen if our closest star were to disappear ? would we be able to survive ? why or why not ? explain .	what would happen if our closest star were to disappear ? would we be able to survive ? why or why not ? explain .
beware , though . while all sarcasm fits the definition of verbal irony , not all verbal irony is sarcastic . verbal irony is where what is meant is the opposite of what is said , while sarcasm adds that little punch of attitude .	explain the relationship between verbal irony and sarcasm .	explain the relationship between verbal irony and sarcasm .
that material is made by a single , highly-guarded company called crane and company , which has been printing currency since paul revere asked them to help finance the revolutionary war . the starch in many counterfeit bills , on the other hand , is made of two molecules : amylopectin and amylose . it 's amylose that gives the fake away .	why doesn ’ t amylopectin react with i3- ?	why doesn ’ t amylopectin react with i3- ?
the british government made it official on august 2 , 1880 with the statutes , or definition of time , act . but , while britain may have been the first to establish standard time , it is asia and the islands of the south pacific that enjoyed the first hour of each new day . the international date line passes through the pacific ocean on the opposite side of the earth from the prime meridian in greenwich where , thanks to trains , standard time was first used .	what area of the world enjoys the first hour of the day ?	what area of the world enjoys the first hour of the day ?
here 's how it works in normal healthy development . hedgehog protein latches on to a protein called patched . that inhibits , or holds , patched back , allowing another protein called smoothened to freely signal the cells , telling them where to go and what kind of tissues to become .	in healthy cells , the hedgehog protein latches onto :	in healthy cells , the hedgehog protein latches onto :
zeus deemed humans subservient creatures vulnerable to the elements and dependent on the gods for protection . however , prometheus envisioned his crude creations with a greater purpose . so when zeus asked him to decide how sacrifices would be made , the wily prometheus planned a trick that would give humans some advantage .	how does prometheus ’ s view of humanity ’ s purpose differ from that of zeus ?	how does prometheus ’ s view of humanity ’ s purpose differ from that of zeus ?
on really small scales , some of the familiar rules of physics do n't apply , in particular , everyday newtonian mechanics break down , and forces that are normally negligible become powerful . those forces include surface tension and capillary action , the phenomena that govern other small things . micropropulsion systems can harness these forces to power spacecraft .	current functions of small satellites include all the following except _____ .	current functions of small satellites include all the following except _____ .
on really small scales , some of the familiar rules of physics do n't apply , in particular , everyday newtonian mechanics break down , and forces that are normally negligible become powerful . those forces include surface tension and capillary action , the phenomena that govern other small things . micropropulsion systems can harness these forces to power spacecraft .	surface tension becomes a dominant force in the micro-domain , which allows insects such as water striders to walk on water . what are some other examples that illustrate the effects of surface tension ?	surface tension becomes a dominant force in the micro-domain , which allows insects such as water striders to walk on water . what are some other examples that illustrate the effects of surface tension ?
we read fiction for many reasons . to be entertained , to find out who done it , to travel to strange , new planets , to be scared , to laugh , to cry , to think , to feel , to be so absorbed that for a while we forget where we are .	which of these represents a cliché ?	which of these represents a cliché ?
we read fiction for many reasons . to be entertained , to find out who done it , to travel to strange , new planets , to be scared , to laugh , to cry , to think , to feel , to be so absorbed that for a while we forget where we are .	why do people love to read fiction ? list several reasons .	why do people love to read fiction ? list several reasons .
the shock wave heads away from the plane , which you hear as a very loud boom -- so powerful that they ’ re sometimes mistaken for earthquakes . and those sonic booms don ’ t just happen once , like when a plane breaks the sound barrier . they continue throughout the entire supersonic flight .	what does 'super sonic ' mean ?	what does 'super sonic ' mean ?
most camera lenses are also achromatic , meaning they focus both red and blue light to the same point . your eye is different . when red light from an object is in focus , the blue light is out of focus .	the photoreceptors for color vision in the human eye _____ .	the photoreceptors for color vision in the human eye _____ .
most camera lenses are also achromatic , meaning they focus both red and blue light to the same point . your eye is different . when red light from an object is in focus , the blue light is out of focus .	scientists and engineers have learned how to do many things better by studying living organisms . what are some of the features in the human eye that might be used to make more efficient vision systems for robots ?	scientists and engineers have learned how to do many things better by studying living organisms . what are some of the features in the human eye that might be used to make more efficient vision systems for robots ?
most camera lenses are also achromatic , meaning they focus both red and blue light to the same point . your eye is different . when red light from an object is in focus , the blue light is out of focus .	what improvements might you like to make to the human eye ?	what improvements might you like to make to the human eye ?
the average pizza slice has 272 calories , there are about 78 in a piece of bread , and an apple has about 52 . that energy is released during digestion , and stored in other molecules that can be broken down to provide energy when the body needs it . it 's used in three ways : about 10 % enables digestion , about 20 % fuels physical activity , and the biggest chunk , around 70 % , supports the basic functions of our organs and tissues .	where is the energy stored in our food ?	where is the energy stored in our food ?
so these stories allow me to have conversations , to speak the unspeakable , that many are afraid to have . once in eugene , oregon , a young , blond-haired , blue-eyed boy , middle schooler , at the end of a performance in the dialogue said , `` but ms. awele , racism 's over , right ? '' and not wanting to answer for him , i said , `` turn to the person sitting next to you .	what startling question did a boy in eugene , oregon ask awele makeba ?	what startling question did a boy in eugene , oregon ask awele makeba ?
it 's all made from the same elements that make up macaroni salad . so , to recap , everything is made of atoms . they are the stuff that things are made of . atoms are grouped together in different ways to form molecules .	explain , in a nutshell , how everything is made out of the same stuff .	explain , in a nutshell , how everything is made out of the same stuff .
it 's dory . okay , that was easy . here 's a little harder one .	design a character that would be really easy to describe mathematically . what makes the design easy ?	design a character that would be really easy to describe mathematically . what makes the design easy ?
dust sticks to the moisture on our skin when we sweat and the tiny hairs on our skin when we are dry . so , even if you are invisible , dust would still land on every part of you . we usually do n't notice the dust on our skin because we ca n't see a thin layer of dust on top of our skin color .	if a person is invisible , his/her presence can still be detected by other people ’ s sense of :	if a person is invisible , his/her presence can still be detected by other people ’ s sense of :
dust sticks to the moisture on our skin when we sweat and the tiny hairs on our skin when we are dry . so , even if you are invisible , dust would still land on every part of you . we usually do n't notice the dust on our skin because we ca n't see a thin layer of dust on top of our skin color .	if there is someone invisible from within , why would it be unreasonable for this person to still be able to use their eyes ?	if there is someone invisible from within , why would it be unreasonable for this person to still be able to use their eyes ?
so , then , how do we slow down time in film ? how do we create slow motion ? maybe this is a surprise , but we do n't take less pictures , we take more pictures .	how do we make slow motion in film ?	how do we make slow motion in film ?
so , then , how do we slow down time in film ? how do we create slow motion ? maybe this is a surprise , but we do n't take less pictures , we take more pictures .	what 's your favorite slow motion scene from a movie ?	what 's your favorite slow motion scene from a movie ?
there 's a push to make researchers raw data , experimental procedures , and analytical techniques more openly available in order to ease replication efforts . the peer review process can also be strengthened to more efficiently weed out weak papers prior to publication . and we could temper the pressure to find big results by publishing more papers that fail to confirm the original hypothesis , an event that happens far more than current scientific literature suggests .	what is “ peer review ” ?	what is “ peer review ” ?
to understand the rest of the story , you have to understand that our brains are slow . what you would like is that when light hits your eye , then -- ping ! -- immediately you have a perception of what the world is like .	when light hits your eye , how long does it take for your brain to perceive what you are actually seeing ?	when light hits your eye , how long does it take for your brain to perceive what you are actually seeing ?
to understand the rest of the story , you have to understand that our brains are slow . what you would like is that when light hits your eye , then -- ping ! -- immediately you have a perception of what the world is like .	in your own words , explain why the eye is so complex .	in your own words , explain why the eye is so complex .
there was even a widespread rumor that british agents were buying up connecticut sheep in order to sabotage the textile industry , lest you worry that america 's fascination with conspiracy theories is new . so those pushing for war were known as war hawks , and the most famous among them was kentucky 's henry clay . they took the impressment of sailors as an affront to american national honor , but they also complained that britain 's actions were an affront to free trade , by which they meant america 's ability to trade with europeans other than great britain .	why were war hawks pushing for war ?	why were war hawks pushing for war ?
slower , warm sighing air produces lower pitches , and faster , cool , flowing air produces higher pitches in the series . but any single harmonic series has gaps where pitches are missing and the versatility of brass instruments lies in their ability to switch between multiple series . on instruments like the trumpet , valves can be lowered to increase the length of tubing the air travels through , while on a trombone , this is done by extending its slide .	the harmonic series _____ .	the harmonic series _____ .
somewhere right now , people are lining up to scare themselves , maybe with a thrill ride or horror movie . in fact , in october of 2015 alone , about 28 million people visited a haunted house in the u.s .	what are the psychological benefits of voluntarily engaging with scary situations ?	what are the psychological benefits of voluntarily engaging with scary situations ?
we can decipher one kind of stellar message by turning starlight into rainbows . when you look at a rainbow on earth , you 're really looking at light from our sun being scattered through water droplets in the atmosphere into all the different wavelengths that make it up . and we study the light from other stars , we can create rainbows on demand using not water droplets , but other specific instruments that disperse light .	why have humans evolved to be sensitive only to optical light ? why might this be an advantage ? why might it be a disadvantage ? [ hint : what wavelength does the sun preferentially emit its energy ? ] if there are organisms elsewhere in the universe sensitive to the other wavelengths , what would they look like ? sketch your idea .	why have humans evolved to be sensitive only to optical light ? why might this be an advantage ? why might it be a disadvantage ? [ hint : what wavelength does the sun preferentially emit its energy ? ] if there are organisms elsewhere in the universe sensitive to the other wavelengths , what would they look like ? sketch your idea .
the character of the devil often would roam through the crowds and pull unsuspecting watchers into a hell that was depicted as a dragon 's mouth . the virtuous biblical stories had morphed into crude and sometimes comic stories . the clergy intended to teach against immorality .	why do you think the plays deteriorated from holy stories to immoral productions ?	why do you think the plays deteriorated from holy stories to immoral productions ?
some say this mystical phenomenon ca n't fit within the confines of science , and that 's okay . but then telekinesis becomes purely a matter of personal conviction . if something ca n't be assessed scientifically , then it ca n't be described as scientific either .	telekinesis is :	telekinesis is :
`` writers who overload their sentences with nominalizations tend to sound pompous and abstract . '' only one zombie noun -- the key word `` nominalizations '' -- has been allowed to remain standing . at their best , nominalizations help us express complex ideas , perception , intelligence , epistemology .	you can avert the zombie noun apocalypse by favoring	you can avert the zombie noun apocalypse by favoring
global oneness project a game for life i do n't know how i can really put this , but my football is really something that is very powerful in my life , that gives me the drive to be who i am now , and have the goals i have now . i think if it was n't for football… i ca n't really imagine myself without football .	complete the following sentence found in a classroom in the film : “ knowledge is ________ . ''	complete the following sentence found in a classroom in the film : “ knowledge is ________ . ''
in children , however , simply spending extended hours indoors can have developmental effects . a condition called myopia , where the eyes can not focus properly , is seen much more frequently in children who spend more time inside . not only are you constantly forced to focus on nearby objects as opposed to far off landscapes and distances , but scientists believe that the sun itself may actually play a role in healthy eye regulation .	myopia , a condition that causes you to have trouble focusing your eyes , is seen more in children that spend too much time inside . what is one reason for this ?	myopia , a condition that causes you to have trouble focusing your eyes , is seen more in children that spend too much time inside . what is one reason for this ?
welcome to the family tree of technical codes . so what constitutes a code ? first of all , it has to be recognized by all who read it .	what 's the first thing that constitutes a code ?	what 's the first thing that constitutes a code ?
so far , only 3 atoms , have been observed . first one atom then another two . so it 's more than ununquadium , is it more ?	when was ununoctium first made by the hot fusion method in dubna ( russia ) ?	when was ununoctium first made by the hot fusion method in dubna ( russia ) ?
you may have to curb your chronic stress . that 's because it has even been associated with shortened telomeres , the shoelace tip ends of chromosomes that measure a cell 's age . telomeres cap chromosomes to allow dna to get copied every time a cell divides without damaging the cell 's genetic code , and they shorten with each cell division .	telomeres , the shoelace tip ends on chromosomes :	telomeres , the shoelace tip ends on chromosomes :
in most non-piezoelectric crystalline materials , the atoms in their unit cells are distributed symmetrically around a central point . but some crystalline materials do n't possess a center of symmetry making them candidates for piezoelectricity . let 's look at quartz , a piezoelectric material made of silicon and oxygen .	why are regular crystalline materials ( with a center of symmetry in their structure ) not capable of exhibiting piezoelectricity ?	why are regular crystalline materials ( with a center of symmetry in their structure ) not capable of exhibiting piezoelectricity ?
you 're just relabeling the experience . and though the threat response is universal , research shows differences between individuals in how the chemicals associated with the threat response work . this explains why some are more prone to thrill-seeking than others .	the threat response ( fight or flight ) is universal , but how individuals experience and interpret the response can very from person to person .	the threat response ( fight or flight ) is universal , but how individuals experience and interpret the response can very from person to person .
and after an exhausting six month trip , arriving in the south was a real highlight , often celebrated by bursting into song . by 1965 , the trip down the trail could be made by truck . thousands of trucks supplied by china and russia took up the task amidst ferocious b-52 bombing and truck drivers became known as pilots of the ground .	by 1965 , the trail was passable by trucks . what was the nickname given to these truck drivers ?	by 1965 , the trail was passable by trucks . what was the nickname given to these truck drivers ?
others will be inhibited . over time , these dysfunctional adaptations impair your body 's ability to deal with the forces on it . poor posture inflicts extra wear and tear on your joints and ligaments , increases the likelihood of accidents , and makes some organs , like your lungs , less efficient .	which force on our bodies do we have to deal with all the time ?	which force on our bodies do we have to deal with all the time ?
it took about four decades before a team of biologists , led by professor philip beachy , stumbled upon the answer . his lab was studying a specific gene found in many species , from mice to humans , called the hedgehog gene . it was named by two scientists , who later shared the noble prize for their work , who found that mutating this gene in fruit flies produced pointy spikes like a hedgehog . beachy and his colleagues performed genetic modifications to turn off the hedgehog genes in mice .	two scientists won the nobel prize for the discovery of the hedgehog gene . why did they choose that name ?	two scientists won the nobel prize for the discovery of the hedgehog gene . why did they choose that name ?
but studies have found that for many people , the negative psychological impact we feel from losing something is about twice as strong as the positive impact of gaining the same thing . loss aversion is one cognitive bias that arises from heuristics , problem-solving approaches based on previous experience and intuition rather than careful analysis . and these mental shortcuts can lead to irrational decisions , not like falling in love or bungee jumping off a cliff , but logical fallacies that can easily be proven wrong .	can you think about a situation in which your daily choices are affected by one of the heuristics discussed here ?	can you think about a situation in which your daily choices are affected by one of the heuristics discussed here ?
but studies have found that for many people , the negative psychological impact we feel from losing something is about twice as strong as the positive impact of gaining the same thing . loss aversion is one cognitive bias that arises from heuristics , problem-solving approaches based on previous experience and intuition rather than careful analysis . and these mental shortcuts can lead to irrational decisions , not like falling in love or bungee jumping off a cliff , but logical fallacies that can easily be proven wrong .	heuristics can be advantageous from an evolutionally perspective . can you think of a scenario in which being guided by an intuitive decision is actually better than a careful analysis of the situation ?	heuristics can be advantageous from an evolutionally perspective . can you think of a scenario in which being guided by an intuitive decision is actually better than a careful analysis of the situation ?
what happens to an artwork when it 's taken out of its originally intended context ? take the example of michelangelo 's statue of david , depicting the boy hero who slew the giant philistine , goliath , armed with only his courage and his slingshot . when michelangelo began carving a block of pure white marble to communicate this famous biblical story , the city of florence intended to place the finished product atop their grand cathedral .	the story of david vs. goliath is ________ .	the story of david vs. goliath is ________ .
what happens to an artwork when it 's taken out of its originally intended context ? take the example of michelangelo 's statue of david , depicting the boy hero who slew the giant philistine , goliath , armed with only his courage and his slingshot . when michelangelo began carving a block of pure white marble to communicate this famous biblical story , the city of florence intended to place the finished product atop their grand cathedral .	when was michelangelo ’ s statue of david debuted ?	when was michelangelo ’ s statue of david debuted ?
what happens to an artwork when it 's taken out of its originally intended context ? take the example of michelangelo 's statue of david , depicting the boy hero who slew the giant philistine , goliath , armed with only his courage and his slingshot . when michelangelo began carving a block of pure white marble to communicate this famous biblical story , the city of florence intended to place the finished product atop their grand cathedral .	towards which city does michelangelo ’ s statue of david face ?	towards which city does michelangelo ’ s statue of david face ?
the name stoicism comes from the stoa poikile , the decorated public colonnade where zeno and his disciples gathered for discussion . today , we colloquially use the word stoic to mean someone who remains calm under pressure and avoids emotional extremes . but while this captures important aspects of stoicism , the original philosophy was more than just an attitude .	which of the following is not a stoic virtue :	which of the following is not a stoic virtue :
the name stoicism comes from the stoa poikile , the decorated public colonnade where zeno and his disciples gathered for discussion . today , we colloquially use the word stoic to mean someone who remains calm under pressure and avoids emotional extremes . but while this captures important aspects of stoicism , the original philosophy was more than just an attitude .	what is the stoic idea of logos ?	what is the stoic idea of logos ?
the name stoicism comes from the stoa poikile , the decorated public colonnade where zeno and his disciples gathered for discussion . today , we colloquially use the word stoic to mean someone who remains calm under pressure and avoids emotional extremes . but while this captures important aspects of stoicism , the original philosophy was more than just an attitude .	which of the following historical figures was not a stoic ?	which of the following historical figures was not a stoic ?
it may also affect other bedtime activities . researchers have found that those who watch more than 20 hours of tv a week have , on average , a 44 % reduction in sperm . but perhaps the most significant findings relate directly to your life span .	according to a study , watching more than 20 hours of tv per week decreased sperm count in test subjects by how much ?	according to a study , watching more than 20 hours of tv per week decreased sperm count in test subjects by how much ?
but the modern conlangs go further . dothraki , na'vi , and klingon are developed enough that you can actually speak them . here 's a translation of `` hamlet '' into klingon , although performing it would mean getting used to pronouncing `` k '' with your uvula , that weird , cartoony thing hanging in the back of your throat .	of elvish , dothraki , na ’ vi and klingon , which is the least complete ?	of elvish , dothraki , na ’ vi and klingon , which is the least complete ?
so we 're faced with this astounding conclusion : the decimal numbers can not be put on a list . they represent a bigger infinity that the infinity of whole numbers . so , even though we 're familiar with only a few irrationals , like square root of two and pi , the infinity of irrationals is actually greater than the infinity of fractions .	which infinity is bigger , the whole numbers or the decimals ?	which infinity is bigger , the whole numbers or the decimals ?
energy is not easy to define . things have energy , but you ca n't hold a bushel of energy in your hands .	if a piece of metal at 70 degrees touches a piece of metal at 40 degrees , ________ .	if a piece of metal at 70 degrees touches a piece of metal at 40 degrees , ________ .
such a predicament would make many people despair and curse their awful fate . but for zeno of cyprus , it became the foundation of his life 's work and legacy . the once wealthy merchant lost everything when he was shipwrecked in athens around 300 bce .	why is it that practicing virtue , i.e. , trying to live with moral integrity , is a key to a life well lived ?	why is it that practicing virtue , i.e. , trying to live with moral integrity , is a key to a life well lived ?
there ’ s a company , or several companies , that are using nano particles of cerium oxide as an additive for fuels to make a particular diesel fuel to try and make it burn better and give more power when you are driving diesel cars . and here in nottingham we are trying to develop new ways of making these nano particles by reacting cerium with high temperature water and it ’ s been quite successful . it ’ s also used in organic synthesis by chemists for making organic molecules because it can be very reactive under certain circumstances .	as the professor explained , his research has involved making nanoparticles by reacting cerium with ...	as the professor explained , his research has involved making nanoparticles by reacting cerium with ...
and if electrons are waves , it 's easy to explain bohr 's rule for picking out the special orbits . once you have the idea that electrons behave like waves , you can go look for it . and within a few years , scientists in the us and uk had observed wave behavior from electrons .	who was the first person to suggest that electrons behave like waves ?	who was the first person to suggest that electrons behave like waves ?
he found that the amygdala was physically connected to another region called the hippocampus -- a little seahorse-shaped area that is needed to turn short-term memories into long-term memories . it 's thought that this connection between the amygdala and hippocampus links emotion and memory together , so that you remember really emotional stuff better than boring everyday things . d2 : yeah , like patient h.m .	why would it be important for emotion and memory to be linked together ? where might this be problematic ?	why would it be important for emotion and memory to be linked together ? where might this be problematic ?
first of all , here 's what we actually see on the fossil : imprints of bones and feathers that have left telltale mineral deposits . and from those imprints , we can determine that these microraptor feathers were similar to modern dinosaur , as in bird , feathers . but what gives birds their signature diverse colorations ? most feathers contain just one or two dye-like pigments . the cardinal 's bright red comes from carotenoids , the same pigments that make carrots orange , while the black of its face is from melanin , the pigment that colors our hair and skin .	besides flight , what are some other purposes that feathers serve for birds today ?	besides flight , what are some other purposes that feathers serve for birds today ?
so these may well provide us a lot of new research in the areas of nano-science and nano-machines . also , because of its fluorescence nature it ’ s often used as a marker in biochemistry so if you want to stain cells and determine whether certain types are present then you can use it for that too . so in terms of day-to-day life , where do we find terbium ? well we find it in unusual devices like energy-saving light-bulbs because it stimulates or it increases the yield of light in the mercury discharge that we use to run fluorescent strips .	as stephen explained , which property allows us to use terbium as a marker in biochemistry ?	as stephen explained , which property allows us to use terbium as a marker in biochemistry ?
for starters , fear can actually feel pretty good . when a threat triggers our fight or flight response , our bodies prepare for danger by releasing chemicals that change how our brains and bodies function . this automatic response jumpstarts systems that can aid in survival .	the fight or flight response is similar to what other arousal states ( select all that apply ) :	the fight or flight response is similar to what other arousal states ( select all that apply ) :
buddha proposed that we love because we are trying to satisfy our base desires . yet , our passionate cravings are defects , and attachments , even romantic love , are a great source of suffering . luckily , buddha discovered the eight-fold path , a sort of program for extinguishing the fires of desire so that we can reach nirvana , an enlightened state of peace , clarity , wisdom , and compassion .	romantic attachments are a great source of what , according to the buddha ?	romantic attachments are a great source of what , according to the buddha ?
he was off by several orders of magnitude when he assumed that light was roughly ten times as fast as the speed of sound . fizeau was aware of this experiment . he lived in paris , and he set up two experimental stations , roughly 5.5 miles distant , in paris .	fizeau did this with simple equipment that included	fizeau did this with simple equipment that included
and , as it collapsed , like that ice skater pulling her arms in , the spin got faster and faster . and everything that formed out of the cloud , the sun and the planets around the sun and the moons around the planets , all inherited this spin . and this inherited spin is what gives us night and day .	as the spinning cloud of dust and gas that formed the sun and the planets collapsed :	as the spinning cloud of dust and gas that formed the sun and the planets collapsed :
and , as it collapsed , like that ice skater pulling her arms in , the spin got faster and faster . and everything that formed out of the cloud , the sun and the planets around the sun and the moons around the planets , all inherited this spin . and this inherited spin is what gives us night and day .	with very few exceptions , everything in the solar system spins the same way . the sun , the earth , the orbit of the earth around the sun , the rotation of mars , jupiter , and saturn—all are in the same direction . how does this help support the idea that the sun and the planets that orbit it were all created from a single collapsing cloud of dust and gas ?	with very few exceptions , everything in the solar system spins the same way . the sun , the earth , the orbit of the earth around the sun , the rotation of mars , jupiter , and saturn—all are in the same direction . how does this help support the idea that the sun and the planets that orbit it were all created from a single collapsing cloud of dust and gas ?
when i asked russell crowe what led to his academy award for best actor , he said , `` the bottom line is i love the actual job of acting . i have a great passion for it . '' successful people in all fields love what they do , whether it 's astrophysicist jaymie matthews , author j.k. rowling or athlete michael phelps .	what is russell crowe ’ s great passion ?	what is russell crowe ’ s great passion ?
`` hi there , i 'm antihydrogen , your antiatom , and to be honest , i 'm feeling kind of neutral . my positron and antiproton balance out , just like your electron and proton , right ? '' `` hey , yeah !	what is the charge of an antiproton ?	what is the charge of an antiproton ?
it will make ethers , we have made various alkynes and a whole series of different compounds and my students still use it very much . if you melt the aluminium oxide , which we ca n't do here but can be done industrially , you can make single crystals which are transparent like glass and then you can grow a single crystal tube , like this one , which because it 's a single crystal , it 's terrifically strong . it 's the defects that make something weak and so if you have just one crystal there are no defects and so it 's very strong .	a single crystal sapphire tube is very strong , mainly because :	a single crystal sapphire tube is very strong , mainly because :
worried that his nephew was a more skillful craftsman , daedalus murdered him . as punishment , daedalus was banished from athens and made his way to crete . preceded by his storied reputation , daedalus was welcomed with open arms by crete 's king minos .	why was daedalus banned from athens ?	why was daedalus banned from athens ?
`` she danced around me , while he shimmied up to me . '' in some languages , like latin and russian , most nouns have different forms that distinguish subjects from objects . however , in english , that 's only true of pronouns . but so long as you know how to distinguish subjects from objects , you can figure out what belongs where .	briefly explain the different grammatical roles that the pronouns 'me ' , 'myself ' , and 'i ' have in a sentence .	briefly explain the different grammatical roles that the pronouns 'me ' , 'myself ' , and 'i ' have in a sentence .
the cork traces the same path over and over again ... up and down , up and down . this repetitive or periodic motion is characteristic of waves . then you notice something else ... using a stopwatch , you measure the time it takes for the piece of cork to go over its highest position down to its lowest and then back up again .	what do you call the repetitive motion of a wave ( such as the way a cork may bob up and down in the ocean ) ?	what do you call the repetitive motion of a wave ( such as the way a cork may bob up and down in the ocean ) ?
we want them chubby and cute , and we want babies that fit our ideals . because those medieval babies ? they have a face that only a mother can love .	what changes in culture allowed for babies to become cuter in paintings ?	what changes in culture allowed for babies to become cuter in paintings ?
but in some tissues , they can continue to divide into new stem cells throughout development , and into adulthood in order to frequently generate new cells and keep up with the body 's needs . one example is the bone marrow , where stem cells differentiate into many types of blood cells . that includes red blood cells , which carry oxygen from the lungs to all tissues , platelets , which help stop bleeding by sticking to damaged blood vessels , and white blood cells , which patrol the body , destroying potentially harmful invaders . every once in a while , something goes wrong during a stem cell 's specialization process and harmful mutations occur in the cell 's dna .	where do blood cells come from ?	where do blood cells come from ?
that characteristic frequency is what we need to make our clock . gps satellites rely on cesium and rubidium atoms as frequency standards . in the case of cesium 133 , the characteristic clock frequency is 9,192,631,770 hz .	what kind of signals do gps satellites transmit to our smartphones ?	what kind of signals do gps satellites transmit to our smartphones ?
that characteristic frequency is what we need to make our clock . gps satellites rely on cesium and rubidium atoms as frequency standards . in the case of cesium 133 , the characteristic clock frequency is 9,192,631,770 hz .	about how far away are the orbiting gps satellites ?	about how far away are the orbiting gps satellites ?
and warmer eyes and brains keep the sharks alert in cold waters . with these amazing adaptations , there 's more to revere than fear from the 500 shark species roaming our oceans . unfortunately , one-third of these species are threatened due to overfishing . after millions of years in the making , these apex predators may be meeting their greatest challenge yet .	how many shark species are threatened ?	how many shark species are threatened ?
that involved using plantations and imported slave labor in the caribbean and on islands off the coast of africa . the world of chocolate would change forever in 1828 with the introduction of the cocoa press by coenraad van houten of amsterdam . van houten 's invention could separate the cocoa 's natural fat , or cocoa butter . this left a powder that could be mixed into a drinkable solution or recombined with the cocoa butter to create the solid chocolate we know today .	chocolate has a long history of being linked to love . ______ drank cocoa before visiting with his wives .	chocolate has a long history of being linked to love . ______ drank cocoa before visiting with his wives .
take this story , for example . there once was a fellow named archimedes . he was born in 287 b.c . in the city of syracuse in sicily .	when and where was archimedes born ?	when and where was archimedes born ?
what he found was that certain elements shared similar properties and reactions . for example , when pure lithium , sodium , and potassium are exposed to water , they will react violently and skid across the surface of the water with sparks . the scientists then realized that these similiarities are no coincidence : elements belong to families that share similar properties .	which element reacts violently with water ?	which element reacts violently with water ?
the whole mess could have been prevented , though , six months earlier , microsoft released a fix for the bug that slammer exploited , but lots of people just hadn ’ t installed it yet . the 2007 storm worm was another worm that spread through email . but its purpose wasn ’ t to destroy your computer or information , it wanted to take over your computer instead .	what is a `` worm '' virus ?	what is a `` worm '' virus ?
a ct scanner works by sending a fan or cone of x-rays through a patient to an array of detectors . the x-ray beam is rotated around the patient , and often also moved down the patient 's body , with the x-ray source tracing a spiral trajectory . spiral ct scans produce data that can be processed into cross sections detailed enough to spot anatomical features , tumors , blood clots , and infections .	many visually opaque objects become _____ under x-ray illumination .	many visually opaque objects become _____ under x-ray illumination .
a ct scanner works by sending a fan or cone of x-rays through a patient to an array of detectors . the x-ray beam is rotated around the patient , and often also moved down the patient 's body , with the x-ray source tracing a spiral trajectory . spiral ct scans produce data that can be processed into cross sections detailed enough to spot anatomical features , tumors , blood clots , and infections .	x-ray scattering happens due to _____	x-ray scattering happens due to _____
a ct scanner works by sending a fan or cone of x-rays through a patient to an array of detectors . the x-ray beam is rotated around the patient , and often also moved down the patient 's body , with the x-ray source tracing a spiral trajectory . spiral ct scans produce data that can be processed into cross sections detailed enough to spot anatomical features , tumors , blood clots , and infections .	modern ct data are often collected when the x-ray source moves along _____ around the patient .	modern ct data are often collected when the x-ray source moves along _____ around the patient .
in the beginning , it was characterized by a new style of combat made possible by the mechanized technology of tanks , airplanes , and especially , trucks . this was the blitzkrieg , a devastating tactic combining quick movement of troops , tanks , and massive use of air power to support infantry movements . and in the very early years of the war , it was extremely effective . the nazis were able to roll over poland , norway , denmark , the netherlands , and then all of france , all within about 9 months between the fall of 1939 and the summer of 1940 .	what was blitzkrieg and why do you think it was so effective ?	what was blitzkrieg and why do you think it was so effective ?
we usually think of rhythm as an element of music , but it 's actually found everywhere in the world around us , from the ocean tides to our own heartbeats , rhythm is essentially an event repeating regularly over time . even the ticking of a clock itself is a sort of rhythm . but for musical rhythm , a steady string of repeating single beats is not enough . for that , we need at least one opposing beat with a different sound , which can be the unstressed off beat or the accented back beat .	are you able to identify any of the rhythm wheel rotations given here with riffs or figures in music you listen to ?	are you able to identify any of the rhythm wheel rotations given here with riffs or figures in music you listen to ?
we usually think of rhythm as an element of music , but it 's actually found everywhere in the world around us , from the ocean tides to our own heartbeats , rhythm is essentially an event repeating regularly over time . even the ticking of a clock itself is a sort of rhythm . but for musical rhythm , a steady string of repeating single beats is not enough . for that , we need at least one opposing beat with a different sound , which can be the unstressed off beat or the accented back beat .	rhythm wheels sets :	rhythm wheels sets :
we usually think of rhythm as an element of music , but it 's actually found everywhere in the world around us , from the ocean tides to our own heartbeats , rhythm is essentially an event repeating regularly over time . even the ticking of a clock itself is a sort of rhythm . but for musical rhythm , a steady string of repeating single beats is not enough . for that , we need at least one opposing beat with a different sound , which can be the unstressed off beat or the accented back beat .	the number of layers in a rhythm wheel usually :	the number of layers in a rhythm wheel usually :
the system of both cats is again in a superposition state , with each outcome having a 25 % chance rather than 50 % . but here 's the cool thing : quantum mechanics tells us it 's possible to erase the both cats alive and both cats dead outcomes from the superposition state . in other words , there can be a two cat system , such that the outcome will always be one cat alive and the other cat dead .	quantum entanglement of the states of the cats will only happen if the cats are moved no farther than :	quantum entanglement of the states of the cats will only happen if the cats are moved no farther than :
how old is the earth ? well , by counting the number of isotopes in a sample of rock that 's undergone radioactive decay , geologists have estimated the earth 's birthday , when it first formed from a solar nebula , to be 4.6 billion years ago .	the earth is ________ years old .	the earth is ________ years old .
how old is the earth ? well , by counting the number of isotopes in a sample of rock that 's undergone radioactive decay , geologists have estimated the earth 's birthday , when it first formed from a solar nebula , to be 4.6 billion years ago .	the earth has an incredibly long history . how does understanding geologic time and the significant geologic events of the past impact your understanding of humans ’ unique responsibility and place on earth ?	the earth has an incredibly long history . how does understanding geologic time and the significant geologic events of the past impact your understanding of humans ’ unique responsibility and place on earth ?
the other set inhibits hunger through its own set of compounds . leptin inhibits the hypothalamus neurons that drive food intake and stimulates the neurons that suppress it . by this point , your body has reached peak fullness .	how does leptin affect neurons in the hypothalamus ?	how does leptin affect neurons in the hypothalamus ?
the tradition of collecting and displaying intriguing items began to be mimicked , as you can see here in the roman empire wing . treasure houses of politicians and generals were filled with the spoils of war , and royal menageries displayed exotic animals to the public on special occasions , like gladiator tournaments . as you can see , we have a lion here and a gladiator , and , well , the janitor ought to be in this wing clearly .	who owned treasure houses ?	who owned treasure houses ?
but that 's the key : it has to move on . in a small , isolated group , a plague like cholera can not survive -- it kills all available victims , leaving only the immune and then theres nowhere to go -- it 's a fire that burns through its fuel . but a city -- shining city on the hill -- to which rural migrants flock , where hundreds of babies are born a day : this is sanctuary for the fire of plague ; fresh kindling comes to it .	why does a disease like cholera need a densely populated expanding community that attracts migrants to survive and thrive ?	why does a disease like cholera need a densely populated expanding community that attracts migrants to survive and thrive ?
but the real key to their speed is efficiency - they ’ re looking several moves ahead , and they use fewer moves to get the same result . so there are 43 quintillion possible arrangements for the cube . a few years back , some researchers borrowed computing power from google to find out that any scramble can be solved in 20 moves or less .	how many possible arrangements are there for the cube ?	how many possible arrangements are there for the cube ?
while it played crucial roles in wider progressive struggles for labor and civil rights , it also supported the soviet union . from the start , the american communist party faced attacks from conservatives and business leaders , as well as from liberals who criticized its ties to the oppressive soviet regime . during world war ii , when the usa and ussr were allied against hitler , some american communists actually spied for the russians .	the american communist party faced attacks from :	the american communist party faced attacks from :
it was very hard , but we pushed . and i 'm here to say that in my community , it was the first community after girls pushed so hard to our traditional leader , and our leader stood up for us and said no girl has to be married before the age of 18 . ( applause ) in my community , that was the first time a community , they had to call the bylaws , the first bylaw that protected girls in our community .	memory helped her community put a rule in place that no girl could be forced to be married before what age ?	memory helped her community put a rule in place that no girl could be forced to be married before what age ?
a dehydrated brain works harder to accomplish the same amount as a normal brain , and it even temporarily shrinks because of its lack of water . over-hydration , or hyponatremia , is usually caused by overconsumption of water in a short amount of time . athletes are often the victims of over-hydration because of complications in regulating water levels in extreme physical conditions .	drinking too much water in a short amount of time is referred to as :	drinking too much water in a short amount of time is referred to as :
and even with the exact same food , different people might not get the same number of calories . variations in things like enzyme levels , gut bacteria , and even intestine length , means that every individual 's ability to extract energy from food is a little different . so a calorie is a useful energy measure , but to work out exactly how many of them each of us requires we need to factor in things like exercise , food type , and our body 's ability to process energy .	explain what factors make our individual energy requirements so unique , and why you think this is the case .	explain what factors make our individual energy requirements so unique , and why you think this is the case .
if the previously heavier side of the scale is still heavier , that means either the remaining plus coin on that side is actually the heavier one , or the remaining minus coin on the lighter side is actually the lighter one . choose either one of them , and weigh it against one of the regular coins to see which is true . if the previously heavier side became lighter , that means one of the three minus coins you moved is actually the lighter one .	in the first weighing of the problem , could we have split the 12 coins another way ( e.g. , 2 groups of 3 and one group of 6 ) and still completed the problem in 3 weighs ?	in the first weighing of the problem , could we have split the 12 coins another way ( e.g. , 2 groups of 3 and one group of 6 ) and still completed the problem in 3 weighs ?
but let 's recap some lessons from this . so first , if you are the type , like the shirtless dancing guy that is standing alone , remember the importance of nurturing your first few followers as equals so it 's clearly about the movement , not you . ( laughter ) okay , but we might have missed the real lesson here .	if you 're shirtless dancing guy , remember to do what with your first few followers ?	if you 're shirtless dancing guy , remember to do what with your first few followers ?
these sites give us invaluable knowledge about our ancestor 's migration patterns , hunting methods , and technologies . in the deepest zone , no human has ever walked . this area has been submerged since well before mankind evolved .	what is the deepest zone in the ocean that humans once walked ?	what is the deepest zone in the ocean that humans once walked ?
these sites give us invaluable knowledge about our ancestor 's migration patterns , hunting methods , and technologies . in the deepest zone , no human has ever walked . this area has been submerged since well before mankind evolved .	only ships and aircraft are the only types of sites found in the deepest ocean zone . why ?	only ships and aircraft are the only types of sites found in the deepest ocean zone . why ?
but ani is in luck . his heart is judged pure . ra , the sun god , takes him to osiris , god of the underworld , who gives him final approval to enter the afterlife .	during the weighing of the heart ceremony , the heart is weighed against	during the weighing of the heart ceremony , the heart is weighed against
exactly . because there 's no more pain . there are people who do n't feel pain . now , that might sound cool , but it 's not . if you ca n't feel pain , you could get hurt , or even hurt yourself and never know it .	why might cursing very loudly ( or yelling without cursing ) after a painful event help alleviate pain ?	why might cursing very loudly ( or yelling without cursing ) after a painful event help alleviate pain ?
and we 're not homophobic . ( laughter ) and it 's true -- the way we communicate with young people is by text , because that 's how young people communicate . so we 'll run over 200 campaigns this year , things like collecting peanut butter for food pantries , or making valentine 's day cards for senior citizens who are homebound .	nancy lublin , ceo of do something inc , states , `` the way we communicate with young people is by text , because that ’ s how young people communicate. ” in your experience how is this statement true ? in what ways is it false ?	nancy lublin , ceo of do something inc , states , `` the way we communicate with young people is by text , because that ’ s how young people communicate. ” in your experience how is this statement true ? in what ways is it false ?
and we 're not homophobic . ( laughter ) and it 's true -- the way we communicate with young people is by text , because that 's how young people communicate . so we 'll run over 200 campaigns this year , things like collecting peanut butter for food pantries , or making valentine 's day cards for senior citizens who are homebound .	does the ability to text easily bring people closer or move them farther apart ? why do you think that ?	does the ability to text easily bring people closer or move them farther apart ? why do you think that ?
this is what joshua bell learned on that cold , january day in 2007 . if you have a great idea , how do you build credibility and emotional connection ?	what ensures that you build credibility and connection ?	what ensures that you build credibility and connection ?
so many people in distress have said this , but why ? what kind of hero do we need and do we even really even need a hero at all ? well , if you look at any piece of literature written for page , script , or stage , the answer is yes !	there is a new type of hero called the anti-hero . can you list any examples of anti-heroes , and why they might be called that ?	there is a new type of hero called the anti-hero . can you list any examples of anti-heroes , and why they might be called that ?
mucins are the primary large molecules in mucus and are essential for giving mucus its slippery feel . they belong to a class of proteins called glycoproteins which are built out of both amino acids and sugars . in mucin , long chains of sugars are attached to specific amino acids in the protein backbone .	mucins are a special class of proteins called glycoproteins . glycoproteins are proteins that are :	mucins are a special class of proteins called glycoproteins . glycoproteins are proteins that are :
and brain superhighways carry information as electrical impulses from one area to another . this is your white matter . the superhighway that carries pain information from the spinal cord to the brain is our sensing pathway that ends in the cortex , a part of the brain that decides what to do with the pain signal .	what are the different roles of gray matter and white matter ?	what are the different roles of gray matter and white matter ?
`` please tell jack or myself '' may sound elegant , but in fact , `` me '' is the right pronoun here . so where should you use `` myself '' ? in its function as a reflexive pronoun , `` myself '' only works if it 's the object of a sentence whose subject is `` i . ''	you should use the word 'myself ' wherever you can because it sounds elegant and impressive .	you should use the word 'myself ' wherever you can because it sounds elegant and impressive .
( gong ) the tenants of these apartments are crammed in , ( grunting ) which poses considerable risk . fires are frequent and the smell of ash and smoke in the morning is not uncommon . lucius , who awoke at dawn , has family duties to perform today .	what was a common smell in early roman mornings in ad 79 ?	what was a common smell in early roman mornings in ad 79 ?
well , this is n't the end of the story , there are still mysteries . why are the gecko 's feet looking like this ? they have bizarre toes and we do n't know why .	design an original product based on your knowledge of gecko feet . explain it 's purpose and how it works .	design an original product based on your knowledge of gecko feet . explain it 's purpose and how it works .
well , this is n't the end of the story , there are still mysteries . why are the gecko 's feet looking like this ? they have bizarre toes and we do n't know why .	which is not true about a gecko 's hairy feet ?	which is not true about a gecko 's hairy feet ?
well , of course , the constituent quarks do interact with the higgs field and that gives them a small amount of mass . but if you add up the mass of all the quarks in the proton it would only account for about one percent of its total mass . so where is the rest of the mass coming from ?	if you had the same mass as the host of this video , and you added up the mass of all of your electrons , how many grams of electrons would you have ?	if you had the same mass as the host of this video , and you added up the mass of all of your electrons , how many grams of electrons would you have ?
unfortunately , you do n't know who is who . from an inscription , you learn that you may ask three yes or no questions , each addressed to any one lord . tee 's answers are always true , eff 's are always false , and arr 's answer is random each time .	which of the following is not one of the limitations on your questions ?	which of the following is not one of the limitations on your questions ?
but up he went , and when he reached the peak , he swayed and leapt across the gap of space onto a branch of the target tree and into a world never seen before . his buddy marwood followed him up , and the two young men free climbed high into the redwood 's crown . stephen came across lichens like grandma poe had shown him as a boy .	during his climb , stephen sillett noticed two interesting and surprising characteristics about the branches growing high in the redwood crowns . describe what he noticed .	during his climb , stephen sillett noticed two interesting and surprising characteristics about the branches growing high in the redwood crowns . describe what he noticed .
so near the earth ’ s surface , where you and i are at the moment , ozone is really quite dangerous because if you breathe it in it can start reacting with any sort of molecule that has bonds between carbon . but in the upper atmosphere , ozone is extremely important because it absorbs ultra-violet light that comes from the sun and stops this ultra-violet light attacking the molecules in biological species on the surface . if it wasn ’ t for the ozone in the upper atmosphere all of us would be , if not dead , certainly very much less comfortable than we are at the moment . so neil ’ s now connecting up a piece of tube to oxygen cylinder and he is going to fill up this gas jar with oxygen and we are going to do a really classic experiment : the one that everyone learns at school and tests for oxygen , which is to relight a glowing splint .	in the upper atmosphere , we can find a high concentration of ozone . why is this ozone layer so important to us ?	in the upper atmosphere , we can find a high concentration of ozone . why is this ozone layer so important to us ?
any given calendar date exists at some point on the globe for 50 hours . so the next time someone asks you `` what time is it ? '' your answer may be a whole lot more complicated than it used to be .	there have been various forms of time telling devices including sundials , hourglasses and mechanical clocks . how else could we accurately measure time ? how do you think people will be telling time in 10 years ? how do you think people will be telling time in 100 years ?	there have been various forms of time telling devices including sundials , hourglasses and mechanical clocks . how else could we accurately measure time ? how do you think people will be telling time in 10 years ? how do you think people will be telling time in 100 years ?
guard cells seal up pores in the leaves . and if microbes are devouring one section of the plant , those cells can self-destruct to quarantine the infection . compounds toxic to microbes and insects are also produced , often tailor-made for a specific threat .	when microbes are devouring one section of a plant , cells can self-destruct to :	when microbes are devouring one section of a plant , cells can self-destruct to :
just instinct and cooperation lets termites build huge ventilation engines powered by nothing but daily temperature cycles . leafcutter ants farm fungus on massive scales too . one colony in south america covered nearly 50 square meters and was home to over 8 million ants !	how do the two types of ants coordinate and execute their designs ?	how do the two types of ants coordinate and execute their designs ?
grizmo does n't need these particular skills to find and hunt down dinner in her food bowl today , but instinctually , viewing the living room from the top of the bookcase is exactly what she has evolved to do . as wild predators , cats are opportunistic and hunt whenever prey is available . since most cat prey are small , cats in the wild needed to eat many times each day , and use a stalk , pounce , kill , eat strategy to stay fed . this is why grismo prefers to chase and pounce on little toys and eat small meals over the course of the day and night .	cats prefer to eat :	cats prefer to eat :
in fact some people have suggested that part of the collapse of the roman empire was due to too much lead . lead was very widely used in the uk for water pipes because it ’ s easy to manufacture and to join together . it tends not to have been very dangerous in terms of drinking water because it gets a coating on the surface so you do not get much lead in the water ; though if you do have a house with lead pipes in , it is usually advisable to change them .	why is lead used in the walls of radiography rooms at hospitals ?	why is lead used in the walls of radiography rooms at hospitals ?
your mind is unconsciously singing along , and without noticing , you might start humming out loud . recent studies have shown that when people hear a segment of music repeated , they are more likely to move or tap along to it . repetition invites us into music as imagined participants , rather than as passive listeners .	when people hear a segment of music repeated :	when people hear a segment of music repeated :
so a new constraint was introduced . how can we land a probe on mars without introducing chemicals from earth ? the next pathfinder mission used an airbag system to allow the rover to bounce and roll to a halt without burning contaminating fuel . years later , we wanted to send a much larger rover : curiosity .	which nasa rover used airbag technology to land safely on mars ?	which nasa rover used airbag technology to land safely on mars ?
critical climate refuges are being identified and set aside , and projects are underway to help mobile species move to more suitable climates . existing parks and protected areas are also doing climate change check-ups to help their wildlife cope . fortunately , it 's still within our power to preserve much of the wondrous biodiversity of this planet , which , after all , sustains us in so many ways .	how are humans helping wildlife adapt to climate change ?	how are humans helping wildlife adapt to climate change ?
critical climate refuges are being identified and set aside , and projects are underway to help mobile species move to more suitable climates . existing parks and protected areas are also doing climate change check-ups to help their wildlife cope . fortunately , it 's still within our power to preserve much of the wondrous biodiversity of this planet , which , after all , sustains us in so many ways .	humans will have to adapt to climate change too . predict the future for those people living in areas that will be most affected ( coastal areas , those in warmer climates , arctic areas ) .	humans will have to adapt to climate change too . predict the future for those people living in areas that will be most affected ( coastal areas , those in warmer climates , arctic areas ) .
five of us were assigned to the lunar module , and our job was to be with these lunar modules as they were being built . so , we spent a lot of time there . i must admit that probably i had more time sleeping on the floor of lunar module # 6 than the crew who flew it on the moon .	from 1974 to 1978 , carr and his teammates shared the world record for individual time in space . how many hours did they log ?	from 1974 to 1978 , carr and his teammates shared the world record for individual time in space . how many hours did they log ?
for instance , why might one twin get heart disease at 55 , while her sister runs marathons in perfect health ? nature versus nurture has a lot to do with it , but a deeper related answer can be found within something called epigenetics . that 's the study of how dna interacts with the multitude of smaller molecules found within cells , which can activate and deactivate genes .	what is true regarding the role of epigenetics in biological processes ?	what is true regarding the role of epigenetics in biological processes ?
that 's a good point . d1 : you know , the amygdala is part of the papez circuit . this system was discovered by james papez , who used the rabies virus to lesion different areas in the cat 's brain .	the papez circuit showed the link between what two cognitive abilities ?	the papez circuit showed the link between what two cognitive abilities ?
we 're competing against a whole world of distractions and we 're fighting for space in an attention span that continues to shrink across generations . so get to the point already . variety may be the spice of life , but brevity is its bread and butter .	which wizard of oz quotation drives the point home ?	which wizard of oz quotation drives the point home ?
but soon they realized that a gram was too small and so they returned to the grave , but since they could n't call it that , they invented the kilogram -- a thousand grams . and that is why out of the seven base si units , the kilogram is the only one to have a prefix in its name . in 1799 the kilogram definition was refined to be the mass of a litre of water at 4 degrees celcius -- the temperature at which it is densest .	why is the kilogram the only of the 7 si measurements to have a prefix ?	why is the kilogram the only of the 7 si measurements to have a prefix ?
experiments soon confirmed einstein 's model , and atomic skeptics threw in the towel . the third paper came in june . for a long time , einstein had been troubled by an inconsistency between two fundamental principles of physics .	einstein 's third `` miracle year '' paper , in june 1905 , introduced his special theory of relativity . the key concept of relativity is that :	einstein 's third `` miracle year '' paper , in june 1905 , introduced his special theory of relativity . the key concept of relativity is that :
the difficulty that computers have with the exceptions , irregularities and shades of meaning that seem to come instinctively to humans has led some researchers to believe that our understanding of language is a unique product of our biological brain structure . in fact , one of the most famous fictional universal translators , the babel fish from `` the hitchhiker 's guide to the galaxy '' , is not a machine at all but a small creature that translates the brain waves and nerve signals of sentient species through a form of telepathy . for now , learning a language the old fashioned way will still give you better results than any currently available computer program .	why is it difficult to construct a machine that translates perfectly ?	why is it difficult to construct a machine that translates perfectly ?
because christianity had so fervently rejected physical beauty , these medieval artists purposefully avoided aesthetically pleasing forms . at first , decorations for churches or palaces were limited to interesting geometric patterns , which could be pleasing without inspiring sinful thoughts of physical pleasure . as the medieval period progressed , depictions of jesus and mary were tolerated , but the artist clearly made an effort to veil mary and give her disproportionately large legs , with those enormous shin bones .	what first populated art spaces in churches and palaces after the fall of rome ?	what first populated art spaces in churches and palaces after the fall of rome ?
in the end , more than 50 people died in bleeding kansas . while nominally still a national party , douglas 's democrats were increasingly divided along sectional lines , and many northern members left to join the republicans . abraham lincoln finally took up the republican party banner in 1856 and never looked back .	many northerners opposed passage of douglas ' proposal because ________ .	many northerners opposed passage of douglas ' proposal because ________ .
in the end , more than 50 people died in bleeding kansas . while nominally still a national party , douglas 's democrats were increasingly divided along sectional lines , and many northern members left to join the republicans . abraham lincoln finally took up the republican party banner in 1856 and never looked back .	when and how did other developments of the 1850s heighten sectional tensions ?	when and how did other developments of the 1850s heighten sectional tensions ?
now , the consensus is that the amount of water we need to imbibe depends largely on our weight and environment . the recommended daily intake varies from between 2.5-3.7 liters of water for men , and about 2-2.7 liters for women , a range that is pushed up or down if we are healthy , active , old , or overheating . while water is the healthiest hydrator , other beverages , even those with caffeine like coffee or tea , replenish fluids as well .	we lose 2 to 3 liters of water each day by doing which of the following ?	we lose 2 to 3 liters of water each day by doing which of the following ?
but the really radical move in the national assembly came on august 4 , when they abolished most of the ancien régime - feudal rights , tithes , privileges for nobles , unequal taxation , they were all abolished - in the name of writing a new constitution . and then , on august 26th , the national assembly proclaimed the declaration of rights of man and citizen , which laid out a system of rights that applied to every person , and made those rights integral to the new constitution . that ’ s quite different from the american bill of rights , which was , like , begrudgingly tacked on at the end and only applied to non-slaves .	in the end , did the french people , at any point , realize the ideals of the declaration of the rights of man and the citizen ? when ?	in the end , did the french people , at any point , realize the ideals of the declaration of the rights of man and the citizen ? when ?
as it approaches the earth , our planet ’ s gravity accelerates it an additional 11 kilometers per second — earth ’ s escape velocity . and when it enters our atmosphere it ’ s moving incredibly fast , up to 70 km/sec or more . the energy of motion is called kinetic energy .	how fast is a meteor traveling when it enters earth 's atmosphere ?	how fast is a meteor traveling when it enters earth 's atmosphere ?
that 's weird . the nucleus has a crazy-high density . think of putting all those cars in your one-foot box .	the density of a typical nucleus is equal to ... .	the density of a typical nucleus is equal to ... .
okay , in each panel , andrew 's in a slightly different place . so i can see each one records where andrew is at a different time . that 's great .	the spacetime diagrams we ’ ve drawn show only one spatial dimension . how would you represent an object that moved forward , backward , up and down ?	the spacetime diagrams we ’ ve drawn show only one spatial dimension . how would you represent an object that moved forward , backward , up and down ?
and in one virtual reality study , people were more willing to sacrifice men than women . researchers have studied the brain activity of people thinking through the classic and bridge versions . both scenarios activate areas of the brain involved in conscious decision-making and emotional responses .	the classic and bridge versions of the problem both activate regions of the brain associated with :	the classic and bridge versions of the problem both activate regions of the brain associated with :
but not all heads are hairy , and , in fact , some of them grow increasingly patchy over time in response to bodily changes . 95 % of baldness in men can be attributed to male pattern baldness . baldness is inherited , and in people with this condition , follicles become incredibly sensitive to the effects of dihydrotestosterone , a hormonal product made from testosterone .	what is the leading cause of baldness in men ?	what is the leading cause of baldness in men ?
first you need to get involved . you need to do curiosity-driven research yourself . we know that learning by being an active researcher is the best way to learn .	do you think animal research is important ? how far should we go in using animals in our research labs ?	do you think animal research is important ? how far should we go in using animals in our research labs ?
small population size , non-random mating , mutations and gene flow . however , none of them lead to adaptation . natural selection is the only process that creates organisms better adapted to their local environment .	which of the following is the only cause of microevolution that can lead to adaptations ?	which of the following is the only cause of microevolution that can lead to adaptations ?
the comma asks the subordinates if they need help . they might not want to admit it , but this time the subordinates do need help . complete sentences weigh quite a bit .	language has a history of evolving . from cuneiforms to word processors , many people now regularly communicate with one another using text messages . how important is punctuation in a text message ? what makes texting similar or different from other means of communication ? are there specific situations where you might ( or might not ) use punctuation when texting ?	language has a history of evolving . from cuneiforms to word processors , many people now regularly communicate with one another using text messages . how important is punctuation in a text message ? what makes texting similar or different from other means of communication ? are there specific situations where you might ( or might not ) use punctuation when texting ?
blood sugar shoots down , and with it , our attention span and mood . on the other hand , oats , grains , and legumes have slower glucose release , enabling a steadier level of attentiveness . for sustained brain power , opting for a varied diet of nutrient-rich foods is critical .	which of the following foods has slow glucose release ?	which of the following foods has slow glucose release ?
but studies suggest that rates of extinction today for many organisms are hundreds to thousands of times higher than the normal background . but the same unique ability that makes humans capable of driving mass extinctions can also enable us to prevent them . by learning about past extinction events , recognizing what is happening today as environments change , and using this knowledge to lessen our effect on other species , we can transform humanity 's impact on the world from something as destructive as a massive asteroid into a collaborative part of a biologically diverse future .	if extinction is a normal part of ecosystems , and mass extinctions have happened before , why should humans be concerned about the rising extinction rate ? what do current extinctions tell us about our impact on modern environments ?	if extinction is a normal part of ecosystems , and mass extinctions have happened before , why should humans be concerned about the rising extinction rate ? what do current extinctions tell us about our impact on modern environments ?
he proposed that we are all driven by the : pleasure principle which inclines us towards easy physical and emotional rewards : and away from unpleasant things like drudgery and discipline . as infants we are guided more or less solely according to the pleasure principle , freud argued . but it will , if adhered to without constraints , lead us to dangerous reckless things : like never doing any work eating too much or , most notoriously , sleeping with members of own family .	according to freud , we are governed by our struggle to balance the pleasure principle and the reality principle . which of these is an example of this struggle ?	according to freud , we are governed by our struggle to balance the pleasure principle and the reality principle . which of these is an example of this struggle ?
those moments in which you begin to wonder and question . these moments have happened throughout history . and have led to some truly amazing discoveries . take this story , for example . there once was a fellow named archimedes . he was born in 287 b.c .	archimedes is an ancient mathematician and inventor . his discoveries are still important , and we use them today . what is an example of another discovery that archimedes made that is still used today ? name other people from ancient history that have made important discoveries .	archimedes is an ancient mathematician and inventor . his discoveries are still important , and we use them today . what is an example of another discovery that archimedes made that is still used today ? name other people from ancient history that have made important discoveries .
all that happens is that random genetic mutations cause the organisms carrying them to behave or develop in different ways . some of those ways result in more copies of the mutated gene being passed on , and so forth . nor is there any predetermined plan progressing towards an ideal form .	why do some genes get passed on but not others ?	why do some genes get passed on but not others ?
some planes like the wright brothers ' had nearly flat wings . so presumably air would travel the same speed over both sides and there would be no lift plus experiments show that air streams do n't meet up at the back of the wing . air over the top goes significantly faster , reaching the trailing edge first .	what do experiments show about airstreams over the top and underside of a wing ?	what do experiments show about airstreams over the top and underside of a wing ?
`` hmm . '' `` she kept caesar lounging in egypt for months when rome needed him . '' `` caesar did more than lounge . he was fascinated by egypt 's culture and knowledge , and he learned much during his time there .	what was her official position in egypt before caesar ’ s arrival ?	what was her official position in egypt before caesar ’ s arrival ?
`` hmm . '' `` she kept caesar lounging in egypt for months when rome needed him . '' `` caesar did more than lounge . he was fascinated by egypt 's culture and knowledge , and he learned much during his time there .	what was the nature of the relationship between egypt and rome before caesar ’ s arrival ?	what was the nature of the relationship between egypt and rome before caesar ’ s arrival ?
in reality , this grid really is just a grid . but not to your brain 's visual system . here 's how it interprets the light information you call this grid .	which part of the face does our brain pay the most attention to ?	which part of the face does our brain pay the most attention to ?
after intense negotiation , they reached the following proposal . the u.s. would remove their missiles from turkey and italy and promise to never invade cuba in exchange for the soviet withdrawal from cuba under u.n. inspection . once the meeting had concluded , dobrynin cabled moscow saying time is of the essence and we should n't miss the chance .	the soviet union placed missiles in cuba in order to ___ the island of cuba .	the soviet union placed missiles in cuba in order to ___ the island of cuba .
disease eradication is one public health effort that benefits all of humanity and challenges us to work together as a global community . beyond eliminating specific diseases , eradication programs benefit local populations by improving health infrastructure . for example , nigeria recently used facilities and personnel from their polio eradication program to effectively control an ebola outbreak .	which of the following diseases is impossible to eradicate ?	which of the following diseases is impossible to eradicate ?
after the industrial revolution , the human incidence of cavities surged because suddenly we had technological advances that made refined sugar cheaper and accessible . today , an incredible 92 % of american adults have had cavities in their teeth . some people are more susceptible to cavities due to genes that may cause certain weaknesses , like softer enamel , but for most , high sugar consumption is to blame .	what percentage of american adults have cavities in their teeth ?	what percentage of american adults have cavities in their teeth ?
cadmium ? yes ok oh yeah , that ’ s some !	as the professor explained , cadmium compounds can be used as pigments . what color is cadmium sulfide ( cds ) , the most used pigment of this element ?	as the professor explained , cadmium compounds can be used as pigments . what color is cadmium sulfide ( cds ) , the most used pigment of this element ?
cadmium ? yes ok oh yeah , that ’ s some !	when he showed to us , why didn ’ t pete touch the cadmium metal lumps ?	when he showed to us , why didn ’ t pete touch the cadmium metal lumps ?
cadmium ? yes ok oh yeah , that ’ s some !	where in a hardware store can you usually find cadmium ?	where in a hardware store can you usually find cadmium ?
cadmium ? yes ok oh yeah , that ’ s some !	because cadmium is toxic , we should dispose of used batteries in the correct way . like mercury and lead , why is cadmium especially dangerous , ?	because cadmium is toxic , we should dispose of used batteries in the correct way . like mercury and lead , why is cadmium especially dangerous , ?
cadmium ? yes ok oh yeah , that ’ s some !	why is cadmium used in fission nuclear reactors ?	why is cadmium used in fission nuclear reactors ?
i was just told by sigurd hofmann , one of the discoverers , they chose the name , mietnerium because lisa mietner who was the co-discoverer of fission of atoms never got the nobel prize , her collaborator otto hahn got the nobel prize she didn ’ t . now she has got an element named after her , and he hasn ’ t , so her name will live longer than his . i think it would be really exciting to choose the name of an element . well professor , you are sitting next to a man who does get to name elements , this is your one chance to tell him what you think he should call any future elements that he might get to have a say in , let ’ s see what you are going to suggest to him .	which name did the professor propose for a future element ?	which name did the professor propose for a future element ?
for plants , light and temperature are the cues which trigger reactions that play out at a molecular scale . the cells in stems , leaves , and flowers contain phytochromes , tiny molecules that detect light . when that happens , phytochromes initiate a chain of chemical reactions , passing the message down into the cellular nuclei .	phytochrome molecules detect :	phytochrome molecules detect :
for plants , light and temperature are the cues which trigger reactions that play out at a molecular scale . the cells in stems , leaves , and flowers contain phytochromes , tiny molecules that detect light . when that happens , phytochromes initiate a chain of chemical reactions , passing the message down into the cellular nuclei .	circadian rhythms are especially important in the beginning of a plant 's life . until their phytochromes perceive the presence of light , seed sprouts grow tall and long , and do not produce any green pigment . as soon as they reach light , they begin to produce green pigment and broader leaves . what are the advantages of producing green pigment only after the presence of light ?	circadian rhythms are especially important in the beginning of a plant 's life . until their phytochromes perceive the presence of light , seed sprouts grow tall and long , and do not produce any green pigment . as soon as they reach light , they begin to produce green pigment and broader leaves . what are the advantages of producing green pigment only after the presence of light ?
this grand character is often substituted for `` me '' and `` i '' because it seems more impressive . `` please tell jack or myself '' may sound elegant , but in fact , `` me '' is the right pronoun here . so where should you use `` myself '' ?	which of the sentences below is correct ? can you explain why ? 1. jack and me went exploring in the woods . 2. jack and i went exploring in the woods .	which of the sentences below is correct ? can you explain why ? 1. jack and me went exploring in the woods . 2. jack and i went exploring in the woods .
this grand character is often substituted for `` me '' and `` i '' because it seems more impressive . `` please tell jack or myself '' may sound elegant , but in fact , `` me '' is the right pronoun here . so where should you use `` myself '' ?	which of these sentences is correct ? can you explain why ? 1. the decision really is up to jack and me . 2. the decision really is up to jack and myself .	which of these sentences is correct ? can you explain why ? 1. the decision really is up to jack and me . 2. the decision really is up to jack and myself .
but perhaps equally captivating is beethoven 's use of dissonance . take a look at measures 52 through 54 , which feature triplets containing the notes b and c. as their sine graphs show , the waves are largely out of sync , matching up rarely , if at all . and it is by contrasting this dissonance with the consonance of the d major triad in the preceding measures that beethoven adds the unquantifiable elements of emotion and creativity to the certainty of mathematics , creating what hector berlioz described as `` one of those poems that human language does not know how to qualify . ''	the notes c , e , g form a c major chord . their frequencies are : c ≈ 261.6 hz e ≈ 329.6 hz g ≈ 392.0 hz what is the approximate ratio of c : e : g ?	the notes c , e , g form a c major chord . their frequencies are : c ≈ 261.6 hz e ≈ 329.6 hz g ≈ 392.0 hz what is the approximate ratio of c : e : g ?
nowadays , it 's less common to use placebos this way because of ethical concerns . if it 's possible to compare a new drug against an older version , or another existing drug , that 's preferable to simply giving someone no treatment at all , especially if they have a serious ailment . in these cases , placebos are often used as a control to fine-tune the trial so that the effects of the new versus the old or alternative drug can be precisely compared .	why is it considered ethically questionable to give someone a placebo if another working treatment is available ?	why is it considered ethically questionable to give someone a placebo if another working treatment is available ?
in a show of his brilliance , the clock continued to chime for the rest of banneker 's life . born in 1731 to freed slaves on a farm in baltimore , maryland , from his earliest days , the young banneker was obsessed with math and science . and his appetite for knowledge only grew as he taught himself astronomy , mathematics , engineering , and the study of the natural world .	which president did banneker write to regarding the poor treatment of black slaves in the country ?	which president did banneker write to regarding the poor treatment of black slaves in the country ?
are there highways , waterways , or open land ? and three - find the patterns of movement that happen over that connection . do people or goods move across it ?	which of the following patterns would create the strongest connection between two locations ?	which of the following patterns would create the strongest connection between two locations ?
in 19 b.c. , the roman poet virgil was traveling from greece to rome with the emperor augustus . on the way , he stopped to go sightseeing in megara , a town in greece .	who was the roman emperor when virgil was writing the `` aeneid '' ?	who was the roman emperor when virgil was writing the `` aeneid '' ?
`` i , myself , have heard others agree . '' the sentence works without it , but that extra pronoun gives it oomph . to check if `` myself '' belongs in a sentence , simply ensure that there 's also an `` i '' that it 's reflecting or intensifying .	in a sentence :	in a sentence :
so , i want to leave you with one thought . so , i 'm all for robots and smart robots . i mean , that 's what i do , i 'd be out of a job if i did n't believe in that .	which is not a law that howard suggests robots need to follow ?	which is not a law that howard suggests robots need to follow ?
so , i want to leave you with one thought . so , i 'm all for robots and smart robots . i mean , that 's what i do , i 'd be out of a job if i did n't believe in that .	generally speaking , robots are mechanical , synthetic , and exist separate from the human body . using your wildest imagination , explain how you think robots and humans may become more closely related in the future .	generally speaking , robots are mechanical , synthetic , and exist separate from the human body . using your wildest imagination , explain how you think robots and humans may become more closely related in the future .
we call it fiber and we eat it in vegetables like lettuce , broccoli , and celery . plants use cellulose to keep themselves strong . the plant could also turn that glucose into starch , a large molecule that stores energy for the plant .	what 's another name for cellulose ?	what 's another name for cellulose ?
♪♪ when he was nine years old , ron , without my parents or myself knowing his whereabouts , decided to take a mile walk from our home down to the library , which was , of course , a public library , but not so public for black folks when you 're talking about 1959 . so as he was walking in there , all these folks were staring at him because it was white folk only and they were looking at him saying , you know , `` who is this negro ? ''	what happened to the crew of the challenger ?	what happened to the crew of the challenger ?
the parasites invade white blood cells to hitch a ride to the brain where they seem to override the innate fear of predators . infected rodents are more reckless and have slower reaction times . strangest of all , they 're actually attracted to feline urine , which probably makes them more likely to cross paths with a cat and help the parasite complete its life cycle . how does the parasite pull this off ?	suppose you did an experiment in which you gave both uninfected and infected chimpanzees a choice between hiding places sprinkled with the urine of leopards , hiding places sprinkled with the urine of hyenas and hiding places without any urine . if toxoplasma controls chimpanzee behavior , which of the following results would you expect to observe ?	suppose you did an experiment in which you gave both uninfected and infected chimpanzees a choice between hiding places sprinkled with the urine of leopards , hiding places sprinkled with the urine of hyenas and hiding places without any urine . if toxoplasma controls chimpanzee behavior , which of the following results would you expect to observe ?
this property of human vision is really useful in the real world . for example , tv manufacturing . instead of having to put infinitely many colors in your tv set to simulate the real world , tv manufacturers only have to put three : red , green , and blue , which is lucky for them , really .	how many colors do tv manufacturers use in the production of televisions ?	how many colors do tv manufacturers use in the production of televisions ?
this property of human vision is really useful in the real world . for example , tv manufacturing . instead of having to put infinitely many colors in your tv set to simulate the real world , tv manufacturers only have to put three : red , green , and blue , which is lucky for them , really .	what industries ( other than television manufacturing ) may benefit from the way the human eye sees color ?	what industries ( other than television manufacturing ) may benefit from the way the human eye sees color ?
a whole separate olfactory system , called the vomeronasal organ , above the roof of the mouth , detects the hormones all animals , including humans , naturally release . it lets dogs identify potential mates , or distinguish between friendly and hostile animals . it alerts them to our various emotional states , and it can even tell them when someone is pregnant or sick . because olfaction is more primal than other senses , bypassing the thalamus to connect directly to the brain structures involving emotion and instinct , we might even say a dog 's perception is more immediate and visceral than ours .	what does a vomeronasal organ do for dogs ? choose the answer ( s ) from the following list : a. allows them to detect direction of smell b. alerts them to various emotional states c. lets them identify potential mates d. detects hormones of other organisms	what does a vomeronasal organ do for dogs ? choose the answer ( s ) from the following list : a. allows them to detect direction of smell b. alerts them to various emotional states c. lets them identify potential mates d. detects hormones of other organisms
aha ! there 's our visual metaphor ! okay , so we have the script , audio , and a visual metaphor .	what is the visual metaphor the ted-ed animators chose to represent all the computer networks that make up big data ?	what is the visual metaphor the ted-ed animators chose to represent all the computer networks that make up big data ?
as for telling a performer when to play the notes , two main elements control this : the beat and the rhythm . the beat of a piece of music is , by itself , kind of boring . it sounds like this .	what kind of music inspires you ? why ?	what kind of music inspires you ? why ?
by studying the comparison between insect and human brains , scientists can thus understand which of our brain functions are unique , and which are general solutions to evolutionary problems . but this is not the only reason scientists are fascinated by insect brains . their small size and simplicity makes it easier to understand exactly how neurons work together in the brain .	which features of insect brains are of particular interest for robotics engineers ?	which features of insect brains are of particular interest for robotics engineers ?
and there 's only one way to be hired : get appointed to the us supreme court . if you want to become a justice on the supreme court , the highest federal court in the united states , three things have to happen . you have to be nominated by the president of the united states , your nomination needs to be approved by the senate , and finally , the president must formally appoint you to the court .	if you want to become a justice on the united states supreme court , you have to be :	if you want to become a justice on the united states supreme court , you have to be :
and there 's only one way to be hired : get appointed to the us supreme court . if you want to become a justice on the supreme court , the highest federal court in the united states , three things have to happen . you have to be nominated by the president of the united states , your nomination needs to be approved by the senate , and finally , the president must formally appoint you to the court .	which of the following is true when it comes to the united states supreme court ?	which of the following is true when it comes to the united states supreme court ?
and there 's only one way to be hired : get appointed to the us supreme court . if you want to become a justice on the supreme court , the highest federal court in the united states , three things have to happen . you have to be nominated by the president of the united states , your nomination needs to be approved by the senate , and finally , the president must formally appoint you to the court .	which of the following is false when it comes to the 112 united states supreme court justices that have served today ?	which of the following is false when it comes to the 112 united states supreme court justices that have served today ?
and there 's only one way to be hired : get appointed to the us supreme court . if you want to become a justice on the supreme court , the highest federal court in the united states , three things have to happen . you have to be nominated by the president of the united states , your nomination needs to be approved by the senate , and finally , the president must formally appoint you to the court .	would you ever want to serve on the united states supreme court ? if so , why ? if not , why not ?	would you ever want to serve on the united states supreme court ? if so , why ? if not , why not ?
and so we get especially excited about other worlds on which water is abundant . fortunately , water is very common in the universe . but life needs water in the form of liquid , not ice , and not vapor , and that 's a little bit less common .	water is very common in the universe , but , according to anbar , what necessary-to-life condition are scientists searching for on other planets ?	water is very common in the universe , but , according to anbar , what necessary-to-life condition are scientists searching for on other planets ?
if the calculator will figure out logs for me , why study them ? just a quick reminder : the log button only computes logarithms of base 10 . what if you want to go into computer science and need to understand base 2 ?	there is a button on most scientific calculators labeled log . what is this button for ?	there is a button on most scientific calculators labeled log . what is this button for ?
you might notice the melody of a phrase the first time , but when it 's repeated , your attention shifts to how the guitarist bends a pitch . this also occurs in language , with something called semantic satiation . repeating a word like atlas ad nauseam can make you stop thinking about what the word means , and instead focus on the sounds : the odd way the `` l '' follows the `` t. '' in this way , repetition can open up new worlds of sound not accessible on first hearing .	the semantic satiation effect refers to :	the semantic satiation effect refers to :
the earth is a sphere and so the amount of solar energy an area receives changes based on how high the sun is in the sky , which , as you know , changes during the day between sunrise and sunset . but , the maximum height also changes during the year , with the greatest solar height during the summer months and highest of all at noon on the summer solstice , which is june 21st in the northern hemisphere and december 21st in the southern hemisphere . this is because as the earth revolves , the northern hemisphere ends up tilted away from the sun in the winter and toward the sun in summer , which puts the sun more directly overhead for longer amounts of time .	in the northern hemisphere , the sun reaches the greatest height in the sky at solar noon on which day ?	in the northern hemisphere , the sun reaches the greatest height in the sky at solar noon on which day ?
what happens to plants also happens to all other organisms up the food chain : some are eaten alive , but most are eaten only when they 're dead and rotting . and all along this food chain , living things shed organic matter and expel digestive waste before dying and leaving their remains to decay . all that death sounds grim , right ?	which of the following terms refer to an organism that consumes non-living organic material ?	which of the following terms refer to an organism that consumes non-living organic material ?
soon , hollywood studios , universities , car manufacturers , and thousands of other public and private employers were imposing the same political tests on the men and women who worked for them . meanwhile , congress conducted its own witchhunt subpoenaing hundreds of people to testify before investigative bodies like the house un-american activities committee . if they refused to cooperate , they could be jailed for contempt , or more commonly , fired and blacklisted .	failure to testify before the house un-american activities committee could have resulted in being :	failure to testify before the house un-american activities committee could have resulted in being :
three : we shouldn ’ t live in ‘ bad faith ’ sartre gave a term to the phenomenon of living without taking freedom properly on board . he called it bad faith . we are in bad faith whenever we tell ourselves that things have to be a certain way and shut our eyes to other options .	what is `` bad faith ? ''	what is `` bad faith ? ''
perhaps a billionaire banker or corporate mogul , like bill gates or john d. rockefeller . how about african king musa keita i ? ruling the mali empire in the 14th century ce , mansa musa , or the king of kings , amassed a fortune that possibly made him one of the wealthiest people who ever lived .	mansa musa was the king of which ancient african empire ?	mansa musa was the king of which ancient african empire ?
well , it 's not there . carbon dioxide does n't absorb light directly from the sun . it absorbs light from a totally different celestial body .	carbon dioxide does n't absorb light directly from the sun .	carbon dioxide does n't absorb light directly from the sun .
so , you either have to migrate like geese or hibernate like ground squirrels . grizzly bears hibernate . their behaviors are closely synchronized with the seasons .	in this particular study area , up to ____ percent of a grizzly bear ’ s diet is vegetation ?	in this particular study area , up to ____ percent of a grizzly bear ’ s diet is vegetation ?
so , you either have to migrate like geese or hibernate like ground squirrels . grizzly bears hibernate . their behaviors are closely synchronized with the seasons .	what factor is a major contributor to declining grizzly populations ?	what factor is a major contributor to declining grizzly populations ?
so , you either have to migrate like geese or hibernate like ground squirrels . grizzly bears hibernate . their behaviors are closely synchronized with the seasons .	grizzly bears have evolved very long claws , for what purpose ?	grizzly bears have evolved very long claws , for what purpose ?
mystified by these cyclops sheep , they called in scientists from the u.s. department of agriculture to investigate . the researchers hypothesized that the pregnant ewes had snacked on poisonous birth defect-causing plants . they collected the local flora and fed samples to lab rats , but struggled to replicate the effect .	why did the researchers use mice studies to try to replicate the birth defect ?	why did the researchers use mice studies to try to replicate the birth defect ?
if she scored in the 30th percentile , 70 % of test takers scored above her . although standardized tests are sometimes controversial , they 're simply a tool . as a thought experiment , think of a standardized test as a ruler .	standardized tests can be used for the following :	standardized tests can be used for the following :
what haber did basically was figure out a way to take this nitrogen in the air and put it into the ground . in 1908 , the german chemist fritz haber developed a chemical method for utilizing the vast supply of nitrogen in the air . haber found a method which took the nitrogen in the air and bonded it to hydrogen to form ammonia .	why was there a controversy around awarding fritz haber the nobel prize for chemistry ?	why was there a controversy around awarding fritz haber the nobel prize for chemistry ?
some historians speculate that ancient egyptian surveyors used one such set of numbers , 3 , 4 , 5 , to make square corners . the theory is that surveyors could stretch a knotted rope with twelve equal segments to form a triangle with sides of length 3 , 4 and 5 . according to the converse of the pythagorean theorem , that has to make a right triangle , and , therefore , a square corner .	according to the converse of the pythagorean theorem , stretching a rope knotted into 12 equal segments to form a 3-4-5-segmented triangle would ensure which of the following is created ?	according to the converse of the pythagorean theorem , stretching a rope knotted into 12 equal segments to form a 3-4-5-segmented triangle would ensure which of the following is created ?
in fact , the ancient europeans were so captivated by the plant 's unusual growth habits that they included it in their legends and myths . in ancient rome , pliny the elder described how the druid priesthood in ancient england believed that mistletoe was a plant dropped down from heaven by the gods . that explained its unlikely position amongst the high branches of certain trees .	the ancient british druids believed the mistletoe was dropped from heaven by :	the ancient british druids believed the mistletoe was dropped from heaven by :
if the egg is not fertilized by sperm within 24 hours , the unfertilized egg will die , and the entire system will reset itself , preparing to create a new egg and uterine lining the following month . the egg is the largest cell in the body and is protected by a thick , extracellular shell of sugar and protein called the zona pellucida . the zona thwarts the entry and fusion of more than one sperm , the smallest cell in the body .	the ______ is the largest cell in the body .	the ______ is the largest cell in the body .
henry 's law states that the amount of a gas that dissolves in a liquid is proportional to its partial pressure . the air a diver breathes is 78 % nitrogen . at a higher pressure under the sea , the nitrogen from the air in a scuba tank diffuses into a diver 's tissues in greater concentrations than it would on land .	how is breathing nitrogen under the sea different for a scuba diver than breathing nitrogen on land ? what are some of the consequences of having too much nitrogen in the body during ascent ?	how is breathing nitrogen under the sea different for a scuba diver than breathing nitrogen on land ? what are some of the consequences of having too much nitrogen in the body during ascent ?
rather than having a b-movie origin , however , its roots can be traced back to the early roman empire where the greek word sarkophagus was used to describe the limestone that a coffin was made of , not the coffin itself . according to the roman scholar pliny the elder , citizens of the empire believed that limestone from a quarry near troy would dissolve flesh . for this reason , it was quite desireable in the construction of coffins .	why do you think citizens of the early roman empire valued flesh-eating coffins ?	why do you think citizens of the early roman empire valued flesh-eating coffins ?
rather than having a b-movie origin , however , its roots can be traced back to the early roman empire where the greek word sarkophagus was used to describe the limestone that a coffin was made of , not the coffin itself . according to the roman scholar pliny the elder , citizens of the empire believed that limestone from a quarry near troy would dissolve flesh . for this reason , it was quite desireable in the construction of coffins .	ancient roman sarcophagi were often decorated with ornate reliefs . what kinds of scenes do you think you would find on a sarcophagus from this time period ?	ancient roman sarcophagi were often decorated with ornate reliefs . what kinds of scenes do you think you would find on a sarcophagus from this time period ?
you can never see an individual quark , because if you try to pull it out , you put so much energy into the situation that another quark , anti quark pair will be created . > > now to form a proton , we are going to need an up quark , another up quark and a down quark . now the standard model of a proton that you have probably seen involves these quarks bounded together by little gluon springs that go between them .	what quark combination ( at minimum ) do you need to make a proton ?	what quark combination ( at minimum ) do you need to make a proton ?
in some cases , viruses spread further , even into the blood and vital organs . to avoid this sometimes dangerous fate , your immune system must launch a stronger attack , coordinating its activity with the brain . that 's where those unpleasant symptoms come in , starting with the surging temperature , aches and pains , and sleepiness .	the immune system communicates with other cells and the brain through :	the immune system communicates with other cells and the brain through :
in some cases , viruses spread further , even into the blood and vital organs . to avoid this sometimes dangerous fate , your immune system must launch a stronger attack , coordinating its activity with the brain . that 's where those unpleasant symptoms come in , starting with the surging temperature , aches and pains , and sleepiness .	one of the first sites for the relay of immune-brain communication is the :	one of the first sites for the relay of immune-brain communication is the :
in some cases , viruses spread further , even into the blood and vital organs . to avoid this sometimes dangerous fate , your immune system must launch a stronger attack , coordinating its activity with the brain . that 's where those unpleasant symptoms come in , starting with the surging temperature , aches and pains , and sleepiness .	one way in which the immune system communicates with the brain is by :	one way in which the immune system communicates with the brain is by :
but what are networks ? everyone knows about their social network , but there are all different kinds of networks you probably have n't thought about . networks are collections of links which combine by specific rules and behaviors if they are alive .	what advantages does a person have who is involved in social networking that a person not involved in social networking lacks ?	what advantages does a person have who is involved in social networking that a person not involved in social networking lacks ?
the buzzing , the biting , the itching , the mosquito is one of the most commonly detested pests in the world . in alaska , swarms of mosquitos can get so thick that they actually asphyxiate caribou . and mosquito-borne diseases kill millions of people every year .	in alaska , swarms of mosquitos can get so thick that they ________ .	in alaska , swarms of mosquitos can get so thick that they ________ .
each state receives a particular number of electors based on population size . the census is conducted every 10 years , so every time the census happens , states might gain or lose a few electoral votes . let 's say you 're a voter in california , a state with 55 electoral votes . if your candidate wins in california , they get all 55 of the state 's electoral votes . if your candidate loses , they get none .	how might a state lose ( or gain ) one of its electoral votes ?	how might a state lose ( or gain ) one of its electoral votes ?
when all these things are in place , a vortex can develop enclosed by the storm , and forming a wide , tall tube of spinning air that then gets pulled upwards . we call this a mesocyclone . outside , cool , dry , sinking air starts to wrap around the back of this mesocyclone , forming what 's known as a rear flank downdraft .	use these key tornado terms in separate correct and complete sentences . -- condensation -- vortex -- updrafts -- mesocyclone -- supercell	use these key tornado terms in separate correct and complete sentences . -- condensation -- vortex -- updrafts -- mesocyclone -- supercell
the birds are singing . it looks like the start of another lovely day . you 're walking happily in the park , when , `` ah-choo ! ''	another word for replication is :	another word for replication is :
the visual system is even more complex . each eye has a left and right visual field . both left visual fields are sent to the right side of the brain , and both right fields are sent to the left side .	why may species have evolved both left and right visual fields within each eye ?	why may species have evolved both left and right visual fields within each eye ?
and fishermen ignored it until the late 1970s . then it was rebranded and marketed to chefs in the u.s. as chilean sea bass , despite the animal actually being a type of cod . soon it was popping up in markets all over the world and is now a delicacy .	what is the original name of the chilean seabass ?	what is the original name of the chilean seabass ?
'the most unique thing about the 2014-2015 tetrad is that all of them are visible for all or parts of the usa , ' says longtime nasa eclipse expert fred espenak . on average , lunar eclipses occur about twice a year , but not all of them are total . there are three types : a penumbral eclipse is when the moon passes through the pale outskirts of earth 's shadow .	on average , lunar eclipses occur how many times a year ?	on average , lunar eclipses occur how many times a year ?
for weeks , i was surrounded by all kinds of organisms , larvae of all sorts . most are so different from their adult form that biologists have a tough time figuring out who they are . try matching these youngsters to their parents .	how would you describe the different phases of a sea urchin ’ s development ?	how would you describe the different phases of a sea urchin ’ s development ?
about three to four months after the initial drilling , the well is ready for fracking to begin . fracking fluid is pumped down into the well at a pressure so high , it cracks the shale rock , creating fractures through which the trapped gas and oil can escape . the fluid itself is more than 90 % water .	what causes the “ fracking ” of the shale rock ?	what causes the “ fracking ” of the shale rock ?
so , well , astatine is an element which most chemists , including me , know little about them except its name . in fact most of our students have difficulty even remembering the name .	why have only a few chemists come into contact with astatine ?	why have only a few chemists come into contact with astatine ?
so , well , astatine is an element which most chemists , including me , know little about them except its name . in fact most of our students have difficulty even remembering the name .	what is the approximate half-life of astatine-210 ?	what is the approximate half-life of astatine-210 ?
so , well , astatine is an element which most chemists , including me , know little about them except its name . in fact most of our students have difficulty even remembering the name .	most of the physical properties of astatine have been estimated by interpolation or extrapolation . what do you think is the inferred color of astatine , considering that fluorine is nearly colorless , chlorine is elemental yellow , bromine is orange-brown and iodine is dark violet ?	most of the physical properties of astatine have been estimated by interpolation or extrapolation . what do you think is the inferred color of astatine , considering that fluorine is nearly colorless , chlorine is elemental yellow , bromine is orange-brown and iodine is dark violet ?
make your choice and click the next button . there are two types of students in the world ; dependent and independent . you 'll need to answer the following questions in order to determine your status , with each question there will be an explanation just to the right of the dependency section if you are under the age of 24 , but answered yes to one or more of these questions then you 're declared as an independent .	explain the difference in a dependent and independent student ?	explain the difference in a dependent and independent student ?
but we know that potato chips are not isometric to flat pieces of rubber or flat pizzas , and that means that in order to get into the shape it 's in now , the slice of pizza had to stretch . since the pizza is thin , this takes a lot of force , compared to the amount of force it takes to bend the pizza in the first place . so , what 's the conclusion ?	which of these actions takes more force ?	which of these actions takes more force ?
these clumps block signaling and , therefore , communication between cells , and also seem to trigger immune reactions that cause the destruction of disabled nerve cells . in alzheimer 's disease , neurofibrillary tangles are built from a protein known as tau . the brain 's nerve cells contain a network of tubes that act like a highway for food molecules among other things .	what is the normal function of tau protein ?	what is the normal function of tau protein ?
but he leaves behind stories to inspire others even today . next , we have our tragic heroes . tragic heroes are usually leaders or powerful characters , but the tragic hero is also majorly flawed and that flaw usually leads him down the path to a horrible and tragic death . take the story of oedipus the king , for example .	how is a tragic hero different than an epic hero ?	how is a tragic hero different than an epic hero ?
over here you can see there is a picture of rutherford here in his lab with one of his co-workers and this is a very famous picture . rutherford , who came from new zealand , had a very loud voice and the experiments were rather sensitive , if you talked too loud the apparatus started shaking and it did not work properly , so his students put up a big notice in the lab saying talk softly please . but i am not sure that it stopped him and i use this picture when i am talking to my students about safety , you ’ ve always got to be really safe when you are working as a chemist .	to which of rutherford ’ s characteristics were his experiments sensitive ?	to which of rutherford ’ s characteristics were his experiments sensitive ?
i do n't mean to be edgy like some pop song . evidence shows that chemicals in your brain stimulated by another person can make you develop a habit for that person . the person comes to satisfy a physiological craving , and you want more .	research shows that chemicals in your brain stimulated by another person can make you develop a ___________ for that person .	research shows that chemicals in your brain stimulated by another person can make you develop a ___________ for that person .
in a series of strikingly original essays , written in the mid-nineteenth century , he fundamentally changed the way that america saw its cultural and artistic possibilities , and he enabled a separation from transatlantic literary traditions . `` we have listened too long ... '' , he wrote , `` ... to the courtly muses of europe . '' emerson 's abjection of cultural traditions brought about what one contemporary called : `` america 's intellectual declaration of independence . ''	finish this quote by emerson : `` we have listened too long to the courtly muses of ... ''	finish this quote by emerson : `` we have listened too long to the courtly muses of ... ''
descriptive writing is good writing , that 's true . but if you want to express the feeling of slow motion in life , you have to actually take up more physical space on the page , use more film so to speak . in doing so , you will create tension and keep your reader interested .	sitze says , `` if you want to express the feeling of slow motion in life , you have to actually ____________ . ''	sitze says , `` if you want to express the feeling of slow motion in life , you have to actually ____________ . ''
but for most of human history , we had to discover these things using our eyes and our ears and our minds . armand fizeau was an experimental physicist in paris . his specialty was actually refining and confirming other people 's results , and this might sound like a bit of an also-ran , but in fact , this is the soul of science , because there is no such thing as a fact that can not be independently corroborated .	armand fizeau improved upon galileo ’ s	armand fizeau improved upon galileo ’ s
while that 's fun to think about , scientific evidence places their origin firmly on earth where they 've evolved over time . in fact , this earthly evolution has given rise to over 1100 known species of tardigrades and there are probably many others yet to be discovered . and because tardigrades are so hardy , they exist just about everywhere .	how many species of tardigrades have been discovered ?	how many species of tardigrades have been discovered ?
another layer is the word 's structure . think of the center of the onion as a word 's base element , its essential kernel of meaning . a free-base element , like o-n-e , or t-w-o , can stand on its own as a word , like one , or two . a bound base , like the r-u-p-t of `` erupt '' or `` rupture '' needs another element in order to surface in a word . two or more bases give us compounds , like `` twofold '' or `` someone '' or `` bankrupt . ''	what is the history of the base element ?	what is the history of the base element ?
oh it is too ! sodium chloride is transparent through infrared light and so here we have got a sheet of sodium chloride that has been stuck on to a glass vessel so that you can have infrared light going through it . now this is a broken one , which my students have broken .	in a sodium chloride crystal , how are the sodium and chloride ions arranged ?	in a sodium chloride crystal , how are the sodium and chloride ions arranged ?
according to aristotle , and many scholars since , a good tragedy can evoke fear and pity in the audience : fear of falling victim to the same or similar catastrophe , and pity for the height of the hero 's downfall . ideally , after watching these tragic events unfold , we experience catharsis , a feeling of relief and emotional purification . not everyone agrees why this happens .	the feeling of relief and emotional purification experienced by the audience after the catastrophic events of the tragedy occur is often referred to as _____ .	the feeling of relief and emotional purification experienced by the audience after the catastrophic events of the tragedy occur is often referred to as _____ .
and on that topic , britain 's impressment policy allowed them both to disrupt american shipping to france and get new british sailors to strengthen their war effort , which was annoying to the americans on a couple levels especially the french-loving republicans , which is a phrase that you do n't hear very often anymore . another reason often given for the war , was america 's crazy conspiratorial anglophobia . there was even a widespread rumor that british agents were buying up connecticut sheep in order to sabotage the textile industry , lest you worry that america 's fascination with conspiracy theories is new .	what is the reason most often given for the start of the war of 1812 ?	what is the reason most often given for the start of the war of 1812 ?
let me start at the beginning . i 'll introduce you to a fellow named euclid . as in , `` here 's looking at you , clid . ''	what is euclid famous for ?	what is euclid famous for ?
today , march 2 , 1955 -- the story that i want to share with you comes from 1955 , march 2 . it 's about a courageous 16-year-old girl , claudette colvin . and it comes full circle today because a week ago today , in san francisco , my middle school students , they performed a program that i had written , `` agents of change , '' starting with the reenactment of plessy v. ferguson from 1892 to 1896 , moving to brown v. board and a student-led strike by barbara rose johns , jumping to claudette colvin and the montgomery bus boycott and ending in 1960 with the sit-in movement , the non-violent movement led by students .	what happened to colvin a year later in 1956 ?	what happened to colvin a year later in 1956 ?
why does wasabi make your eyes water ? and how spicy is the spiciest spice ? let 's back up a bit .	using what you ’ ve learned about how spice works , what do you think is the best way to cool your mouth off after eating something spicy ?	using what you ’ ve learned about how spice works , what do you think is the best way to cool your mouth off after eating something spicy ?
why does wasabi make your eyes water ? and how spicy is the spiciest spice ? let 's back up a bit .	which one of these is not a use for spice plants ?	which one of these is not a use for spice plants ?
as air enters the nose , a small fold of tissue divides it into two separate folds , one for breathing and one just for smelling . this second airflow enters a region filled with highly specialized olfactory receptor cells , several hundred millions of them , compaired to our five million . and unlike our clumsy way of breathing in and out through the same passage , dogs exhale through slits at the side of their nose , creating swirls of air that help draw in new odor molecules and allow odor concentration to build up over mulitple sniffs .	dogs have how many specialized olfactory receptor cells ?	dogs have how many specialized olfactory receptor cells ?
why are facebook and google such powerful companies at creating global connections ? well , in a word : networks . but what are networks ? everyone knows about their social network , but there are all different kinds of networks you probably have n't thought about .	what law applies to our social networks ?	what law applies to our social networks ?
why are facebook and google such powerful companies at creating global connections ? well , in a word : networks . but what are networks ? everyone knows about their social network , but there are all different kinds of networks you probably have n't thought about .	how involved are you in social networks ? other than ones you find online , what networks are you involved in ?	how involved are you in social networks ? other than ones you find online , what networks are you involved in ?
why are facebook and google such powerful companies at creating global connections ? well , in a word : networks . but what are networks ? everyone knows about their social network , but there are all different kinds of networks you probably have n't thought about .	have you experienced any benefits from networks first hand ? what sort of benefits ?	have you experienced any benefits from networks first hand ? what sort of benefits ?
after you 've reacted by gorging on your morning pancakes , you start to experience an opposing force , fullness , but how does your body actually know when you 're full ? the sensation of fullness is set in motion as food moves from your mouth down your esophagus . once it hits your stomach , it gradually fills the space .	when food hits your stomach , what is the sensation that contributes to the feeling of fullness ?	when food hits your stomach , what is the sensation that contributes to the feeling of fullness ?
after you 've reacted by gorging on your morning pancakes , you start to experience an opposing force , fullness , but how does your body actually know when you 're full ? the sensation of fullness is set in motion as food moves from your mouth down your esophagus . once it hits your stomach , it gradually fills the space .	what types of food are the most satisfying ?	what types of food are the most satisfying ?
and while tv may feel like a nice way to relax your body and brain , that may not always be a good thing . not only is a sedentary lifestyle a major contributor to obesity , but studies have shown that people who watch less tv tend to burn more calories , even if they are n't doing more physical activity . simply doing more mentally rigorous tasks like reading , playing a board game , or simple household activities , requires more energy and burns more calories .	people who watch less tv burn more calories , even if they 're just reading a book . why ?	people who watch less tv burn more calories , even if they 're just reading a book . why ?
but thanks to isaac newton , we know that what goes up must eventually come down . in fact , the human limit on a flat surface for hang time , or the time from when your feet leave the ground to when they touch down again , is only about one second , and , yes , that even includes his airness , whose infamous dunk from the free throw line has been calculated at .92 seconds . and , of course , gravity is what 's making it so hard to stay in the air longer .	what about four seconds ? what patterns do you see betwee the changes in height when you double the hang time ? why do these patterns make sense ?	what about four seconds ? what patterns do you see betwee the changes in height when you double the hang time ? why do these patterns make sense ?
so neil ’ s now connecting up a piece of tube to oxygen cylinder and he is going to fill up this gas jar with oxygen and we are going to do a really classic experiment : the one that everyone learns at school and tests for oxygen , which is to relight a glowing splint . so we have a traditional gas jar full of oxygen . so here you can see we are burning a splint .	hemoglobin can bind to oxygen molecules , thanks to the iron atom in the centre of this metalloprotein . however , another molecule ( which forms a gas ) can bind to hemoglobin and block oxygen from binding . what is this poisonous gas ? in which situations can we stay dangerously surrounded by it ?	hemoglobin can bind to oxygen molecules , thanks to the iron atom in the centre of this metalloprotein . however , another molecule ( which forms a gas ) can bind to hemoglobin and block oxygen from binding . what is this poisonous gas ? in which situations can we stay dangerously surrounded by it ?
to summarize , adenosine inhibits your neurons . caffeine inhibits the inhibitor , so it stimulates you . caffeine can also boost positive feelings . in some neurons , the adenosine receptors are linked to receptors for another molecule called dopamine .	which of the following isn ’ t a caffeine source ?	which of the following isn ’ t a caffeine source ?
to summarize , adenosine inhibits your neurons . caffeine inhibits the inhibitor , so it stimulates you . caffeine can also boost positive feelings . in some neurons , the adenosine receptors are linked to receptors for another molecule called dopamine .	which of the following are symptoms of sudden caffeine quitting :	which of the following are symptoms of sudden caffeine quitting :
but all good things must end . in 391 ad , the christian roman emperor theodosius banned pagan practices , so the world soon bid a fond farewell to the olympic games . but just like those early pankration athletes , you ca n't keep a good one down , and 1500 years later in 1896 , the modern olympic games kicked off in athens , greece .	which roman emperor banned the olympics ?	which roman emperor banned the olympics ?
so greece 's economy is in a disaster . a quarter of the population is unemployed , and it has this very high debt burden . normally , if you 've got really high unemployment , what happens is that a country makes its currency cheaper by printing extra money .	according to the video , how much of the greek population is unemployed ?	according to the video , how much of the greek population is unemployed ?
that 's part of sally struthers ' famine campaign . some of it is very familiar ; it 's the madonna and child . women and children are very effective in terms of ngo campaigns . we 've been looking at this imagery for a long time , for hundreds and hundreds of years ; the madonna and child . here is [ duccio ] , and here is michelangelo .	dodson ’ s concern about how reporters and ngo ’ s use “ madonna and child ” imagery is :	dodson ’ s concern about how reporters and ngo ’ s use “ madonna and child ” imagery is :
if comets are where these building blocks of life were first formed , then they are the ultimate source of life on earth , and , perhaps , some of the other places they visited as well . we know that planets orbit nearly every star in the night sky , with one in five having a planet similar to earth in size and temperature . if earth-like planets and the molecules found in dna are not anomalies , we may be only one example of what 's possible when a planet under the right conditions is seeded with organic molecules by a passing comet .	in the galaxy where you live , planets similar to earth in size and temperature orbit what fraction of stars ?	in the galaxy where you live , planets similar to earth in size and temperature orbit what fraction of stars ?
well , the sun emits all colors of light , so light of all colors is hitting your pencil . the pencil looks yellow because it reflects yellow light more than it reflects the other colors . what happens to the blue , purple and red light ?	why does a yellow pencil look yellow ?	why does a yellow pencil look yellow ?
but this poses its own problems , including the influence of wealth , and the emergence of professional politicians with different interests than their constituents . could reviving election by lottery lead to more effective government through a more diverse and representative group of legislatures ? or does modern political office , like athenian military command , require specialized knowledge and skills ? you probably should n't hold your breath to win a spot in your country 's government .	which office was filled by election ?	which office was filled by election ?
it 's an exciting time to be studying this . scientists are just beginning to understand how epigenetics could explain mechanisms of human development and aging , as well as the origins of cancer , heart disease , mental illness , addiction , and many other conditions . meanwhile , new genome editing techniques are making it much easier to identify which epigenetic changes really matter for health and disease . once we understand how our epigenome influences us , we might be able to influence it , too .	epigenetics shows us that your phenotype is not completely written in your genome . what implications could this have for evolutionary biology ?	epigenetics shows us that your phenotype is not completely written in your genome . what implications could this have for evolutionary biology ?
you hear that ? ( beatboxes bass sound ) how do you make that sound ? well , the way you make that sound is you take a `` p '' and you take a `` b '' and you mesh those two together and it 's going to give you what we refer to as the kick drum .	what 's the sound called that you get when you mesh a p and a b ?	what 's the sound called that you get when you mesh a p and a b ?
you hear that ? ( beatboxes bass sound ) how do you make that sound ? well , the way you make that sound is you take a `` p '' and you take a `` b '' and you mesh those two together and it 's going to give you what we refer to as the kick drum .	what sound do you get when you twist together a t and an s ?	what sound do you get when you twist together a t and an s ?
now think about logic and logos , that tight knot connecting a word and truth . and let 's jump back to thinking about what 's funny , because some people say it 's real simple : truth is funny . it 's funny because it 's true .	why do people want or need to define reality ? at what point does that tendency become funny ?	why do people want or need to define reality ? at what point does that tendency become funny ?
now think about logic and logos , that tight knot connecting a word and truth . and let 's jump back to thinking about what 's funny , because some people say it 's real simple : truth is funny . it 's funny because it 's true .	let ’ s say you figure out the actual definition and essential criteria of comedy and thus know whether anything qualifies as funny or not . now explain why people laugh at what ’ s funny .	let ’ s say you figure out the actual definition and essential criteria of comedy and thus know whether anything qualifies as funny or not . now explain why people laugh at what ’ s funny .
in fact , some works that might be considered craft , a peruvian rug , a ming dynasty vase , a totem pole , are considered the cultures ' preeminent visual forms . when art historians of the 19th century saw that the art of some non-western cultures did not change for thousands of years , they classified the works as primitive , suggesting that their makers were incapable of innovating and therefore were not really artists . what they did n't realize was that these makers were not seeking to innovate at all .	when art historians of the nineteenth century saw that the art of some non-western cultures did not change for thousands of years , they classified the works as ________ .	when art historians of the nineteenth century saw that the art of some non-western cultures did not change for thousands of years , they classified the works as ________ .
in fact , some works that might be considered craft , a peruvian rug , a ming dynasty vase , a totem pole , are considered the cultures ' preeminent visual forms . when art historians of the 19th century saw that the art of some non-western cultures did not change for thousands of years , they classified the works as primitive , suggesting that their makers were incapable of innovating and therefore were not really artists . what they did n't realize was that these makers were not seeking to innovate at all .	what are some of the ways in which renaissance culture changed people ’ s views of the role of art—and artists—in western society ?	what are some of the ways in which renaissance culture changed people ’ s views of the role of art—and artists—in western society ?
the steam that was bubbling inside evaporates , leaving behind airy pockets that make the cookie light and flaky . helping this along is your leavening agent , sodium bicarbonate , or baking soda . the sodium bicarbonate reacts with acids in the dough to create carbon dioxide gas , which makes airy pockets in your cookie .	what is the leavening agent sodium bicarbonate another name for ?	what is the leavening agent sodium bicarbonate another name for ?
and everything in the street , every passing person or car , any contents of the neighbor 's trash , each type of tree , and all the birds and insects in it has a distinct odor profile telling your dog what it is , where it is , and which direction it 's moving in . besides being much more powerful than ours , a dog 's sense of smell can pick up things that ca n't even be seen at all . a whole separate olfactory system , called the vomeronasal organ , above the roof of the mouth , detects the hormones all animals , including humans , naturally release . it lets dogs identify potential mates , or distinguish between friendly and hostile animals .	write your own paragraph using the words below to describe what you have learned about dog senses of smell . olfactory receptors hormones vomeronasal organ thalamus canine	write your own paragraph using the words below to describe what you have learned about dog senses of smell . olfactory receptors hormones vomeronasal organ thalamus canine
we 're visiting ancient rome to watch the liberalia , an annual festival that celebrates the liberty of rome 's citizens . we 're looking in at a 17-year-old named lucius popidius secundus . he 's not from a poor family , but he lives in the region known as the subura , a poorer neighborhood in rome , yet close to the center of the city .	although he can join the military at 17 , what is lucius not trusted to do until he is 25 years old ?	although he can join the military at 17 , what is lucius not trusted to do until he is 25 years old ?
and when it comes to creating the story , i 'll fact check as a reporter , but i do n't invite company to create that story . whereas social scientists , researchers , and particularly participatory researchers will often work on constructing the narrative with the community . and when it comes to paying for information , checkbook journalism is roundly discouraged .	dodson touches on some of the pitfalls of journalists embedding with ngo ’ s and researchers . these include :	dodson touches on some of the pitfalls of journalists embedding with ngo ’ s and researchers . these include :
lovers support each other in discovering themselves , reaching beyond themselves , and enriching their lives and the world together . though we might never know why we fall in love , we can be certain that it will be an emotional rollercoaster ride . it 's scary and exhilarating .	some people never fall in love or have a long term loving relationship . are they missing out ?	some people never fall in love or have a long term loving relationship . are they missing out ?
today , we use these tools to answer big questions about how forces , like migration and disease , shape the modern world . dna analysis is even possible in some relatively well-preserved ancient remains . that 's helping us understand how diseases like tuberculosis have evolved over the centuries so we can build better treatments for people today .	when isolated dna is recovered from biological samples of ancient times , it is called “ ancient dna. ” how does studying ancient human dna help scientists in historical studies ?	when isolated dna is recovered from biological samples of ancient times , it is called “ ancient dna. ” how does studying ancient human dna help scientists in historical studies ?
the basal tears that iris constantly produces form a thin coating of three layers that cover her and keep dirt and debris away . right next to iris is the mucus layer , which keeps the whole thing fastened to her . on top of it is the aqueous layer , which keeps iris hydrated , repels invasive bacteria , and protects her skin , or cornea , from damage . and , finally , there is the lipid layer , an oily outer film that keeps the surface smooth for iris to see through , and prevents the other layers from evaporating . normally , iris goes about her day without really noticing the basal tears doing their thing .	why does the lipid layer exist ?	why does the lipid layer exist ?
so we have gone through almost 30 characters . by using this method , the first eight radicals will allow you to build 32 . the next group of eight characters will build an extra 32 . so with very little effort , you will be able to learn a couple hundred characters , which is the same as a chinese eight-year-old .	the first eight radicals will allow you to build how many characters ?	the first eight radicals will allow you to build how many characters ?
protons are effectively tiny . photons start off at very high energies compared to when they 're finally radiated from the sun 's surface . now when we use a computer and a sophisticated solar interior model to calculate the random walk equation with these changing quantities , it spits out the following number : 170,000 years .	compare the initial energy of a photon when it first starts out in the sun to its energy when it is finally radiated from the sun 's surface	compare the initial energy of a photon when it first starts out in the sun to its energy when it is finally radiated from the sun 's surface
chlorine is highly effective in destroying water 's living organisms , but its use remains government-regulated because it has potentially harmful chemical byproducts . and if an imbalance of chlorine occurs during the disinfection process , it can trigger other chemical reactions . for example , levels of chlorine byproducts , like trihalomethanes , could skyrocket , leading to pipe corrosion and the release of iron , copper , and lead into drinking water . water contamination from these and other sources including leaching , chemical spills , and runoffs , has been linked to long-term health effects , like cancer , cardiovascular and neurological diseases , and miscarriage .	too much chlorine during the final treatment process could lead to :	too much chlorine during the final treatment process could lead to :
i also have an ability , so do you . everyone has obstacles to overcome . some are visible like mine .	which activity helped steven overcome his obstacles ?	which activity helped steven overcome his obstacles ?
myths and misconceptions about evolution . let 's talk about evolution . you 've probably heard that some people consider it controversial , even though most scientists do n't .	which metaphor best describes evolution ?	which metaphor best describes evolution ?
you 've been struck by an earworm , and you 're not alone . over 90 % of people are plagued by earworms at least once a week , and about a quarter of people experience them several times a day . they tend to burrow in during tasks that do n't require much attention , say , when waiting on water to boil or a traffic light to change .	people are more likely to experience earworms when :	people are more likely to experience earworms when :
but what if you could cool a molten metal so fast that the atoms could n't find their places again , so that the material was solid , but with the chaotic , amorphous internal structure of a liquid ? that 's metallic glass . this structure has the added benefit of lacking the grain boundaries that most metals have .	how is a metallic glass different from your window glass ?	how is a metallic glass different from your window glass ?
jim turner , who was my supervisor when i did my doctorate , was the first person to discover that fluorine could react with krypton but even that reaction requires quite bright lights to break the bond between the fluorine atoms to get them to react . but krypton can also be used in lasers when mixtures of krypton and of fluorine-containing compound can be used to generate very bright pulses or intense pulses of ultraviolet light . some years ago we had a professor here who bought a really big krypton-fluoride laser and when he switched it on and the beam hit the wall it burnt a hole right through the wall so he knew where to make the hole to get his beam into the next lab .	what link does krypton have with the nobel prize in chemistry ?	what link does krypton have with the nobel prize in chemistry ?
jim turner , who was my supervisor when i did my doctorate , was the first person to discover that fluorine could react with krypton but even that reaction requires quite bright lights to break the bond between the fluorine atoms to get them to react . but krypton can also be used in lasers when mixtures of krypton and of fluorine-containing compound can be used to generate very bright pulses or intense pulses of ultraviolet light . some years ago we had a professor here who bought a really big krypton-fluoride laser and when he switched it on and the beam hit the wall it burnt a hole right through the wall so he knew where to make the hole to get his beam into the next lab .	how is krypton produced industrially ?	how is krypton produced industrially ?
jim turner , who was my supervisor when i did my doctorate , was the first person to discover that fluorine could react with krypton but even that reaction requires quite bright lights to break the bond between the fluorine atoms to get them to react . but krypton can also be used in lasers when mixtures of krypton and of fluorine-containing compound can be used to generate very bright pulses or intense pulses of ultraviolet light . some years ago we had a professor here who bought a really big krypton-fluoride laser and when he switched it on and the beam hit the wall it burnt a hole right through the wall so he knew where to make the hole to get his beam into the next lab .	several years ago a professor at the university of nottingham accidentally burnt a hole in the wall of his lab with a krypton-fluoride laser . these lasers radiate energy near the ultraviolet portion of the spectrum . what is the wavelength that a kr-f laser radiates at ?	several years ago a professor at the university of nottingham accidentally burnt a hole in the wall of his lab with a krypton-fluoride laser . these lasers radiate energy near the ultraviolet portion of the spectrum . what is the wavelength that a kr-f laser radiates at ?
and how is it possible to explore and study something as huge as the universe , most of which we 'll never be able to reach ? the answer is light . and although light from distant parts of the universe can take billions of years to reach us , it carries six unique messages that , when put together , can disclose an amazing amount of information to astronomers who know how to look for it .	how many pieces of information about the objects in our universe are carried by their light ?	how many pieces of information about the objects in our universe are carried by their light ?
and how is it possible to explore and study something as huge as the universe , most of which we 'll never be able to reach ? the answer is light . and although light from distant parts of the universe can take billions of years to reach us , it carries six unique messages that , when put together , can disclose an amazing amount of information to astronomers who know how to look for it .	the light that we can see forms a very tiny part of the electromagnetic spectrum . what other kinds of light do astronomers study ? what additional information is revealed by the light that we can ’ t see ?	the light that we can see forms a very tiny part of the electromagnetic spectrum . what other kinds of light do astronomers study ? what additional information is revealed by the light that we can ’ t see ?
the earth is much much much more massive than the rock , so it moves a very very small distance , and the rock is much less massive , so it moves farther with respect to the earth . maybe a better way to understand gravity is to take two teenagers in spacesuits , and place them far out in space - away from all the planets and the stars . it turns out they will be attracted to each other .	if you place two teenagers with equal mass in space :	if you place two teenagers with equal mass in space :
electrons can also be induced to flow by direct interaction with light particles , which is how a solar cell operates . other renewable energy sources , such as wind , water , geothermal , and biofuels can also be used to generate electricity . global demand for energy is increasing , but the planet has limited energy resources to access through a complex energy infrastructure . as populations rise , alongside rates of industrialization and development , our energy decisions grow more and more important .	think about your school and its use of energy . what are your school ’ s primary and secondary sources of energy ?	think about your school and its use of energy . what are your school ’ s primary and secondary sources of energy ?
each interpreted the text with no knowledge of what the others were creating here 's the result . `` a noiseless patient spider '' by walt whitman interpretation # 1 by jeremiah dickey , medium : paint on glass `` a noiseless patient spider , i mark 'd where on a little promontory it stood isolated , mark 'd how to explore the vacant vast surrounding , it launch 'd forth filament , filament , filament , out of itself , ever unreeling them , ever tirelessly speeding them . and you o my soul where you stand , surrounded , detached , in measureless oceans of space , ceaselessly musing , venturing , throwing , seeking the spheres to connect them , till the bridge you will need be form 'd , till the ductile anchor hold , till the gossamer thread you fling catch somewhere , o my soul . '' interpretation # 2 by biljana labovic , medium : video `` a noiseless patient spider , i mark ’ d where on a little promontory it stood isolated , mark ’ d how to explore the vacant vast surrounding , it launch ’ d forth filament , filament , filament , out of itself , ever unreeling them , ever tirelessly speeding them .	find the words that describe both the spider and the soul in similar ways .	find the words that describe both the spider and the soul in similar ways .
observation # 1 : while there are loads of anecdotes out there about telekinesis , there 's no scientific proof that it exists ; no studies conducted according to the scientific method and repeated under lab conditions can show that its real . in the 1930s , the so-called father of parapsychology , joseph banks rhine , tested in the lab whether people could use telekinesis to make a dice roll the way they wanted it to . but afterwards , scientists could n't replicate his results , and since replication is key to proving an idea , that was a problem .	to make telekinesis happen , telekinetics say they use :	to make telekinesis happen , telekinetics say they use :
( music ) to make your own pop-up book , you 'll need some basic paper tools , such as scissors , an x-acto knife , glue , double-sided scotch tape , a ruler , a bone folder or other creasing tool , and , of course , some paper . for this lesson , we first determined the visual style by making illustrations and deciding on the overall design , colors , shapes and elements we wanted on each page , or spread . you can have more detailed illustrations , but we wanted to illustrate this lesson simply by playing with shapes and colors .	the overall design , colors , shapes , elements , and movements are represented on each page called a :	the overall design , colors , shapes , elements , and movements are represented on each page called a :
will winning the lottery make you happier ? imagine winning a multi-million dollar lottery tomorrow . if you 're like many of us , you 'd be ecstatic , unable to believe your good luck .	based on a study of lottery winners , it was found that winning the lottery :	based on a study of lottery winners , it was found that winning the lottery :
will winning the lottery make you happier ? imagine winning a multi-million dollar lottery tomorrow . if you 're like many of us , you 'd be ecstatic , unable to believe your good luck .	winning the lottery sometimes not be a wonderful event . what can happen ?	winning the lottery sometimes not be a wonderful event . what can happen ?
order means balance , symmetry and repetition ; it means the same thing happening again and again , and the left side matching the right side . order is one of the reasons so many people love paris . but most cities are a complete mess .	what are some reasons that people might prefer old architecture compared to modern architecture ?	what are some reasons that people might prefer old architecture compared to modern architecture ?
by his own admission , luke paid little attention to his lessons , but fortunately for the future of meteorology , he managed to pick up a good knowledge of latin . compared to the other natural sciences , meteorology , the study of weather , was a late developer , mainly because weather is elusive . you ca n't snap off a piece of rainbow or a section of cloud for convenient study .	why was meteorology such a late developer compared to other branches of science ? can you think of ways in which weather might have been studied in the centuries before computers appeared ?	why was meteorology such a late developer compared to other branches of science ? can you think of ways in which weather might have been studied in the centuries before computers appeared ?
by the way , this applies to ionic bonding too . remember sodium chloride ? well , the electron that sodium loses is the one furthest from its nucleus , and the orbital that electron occupies when it goes over to chlorine is also the one furthest from its nucleus .	sodium chloride is a lattice structure , in which ________ .	sodium chloride is a lattice structure , in which ________ .
this is how conditional probability works . you start off with a large sample space that includes every possibility . but every additional piece of information allows you to eliminate possibilities , shrinking the sample space and increasing the probability of getting a particular combination .	describe what ‘ sample space ’ means .	describe what ‘ sample space ’ means .
fourth is zakat , or almsgiving , in which non-poor muslims are required to give a percentage of their income to the poor , and lastly hajj , the pilgrimage to mecca that muslims must try to fulfill at least once in their lives , provided they are healthy and have enough money . and there ’ s also more to understanding islam than just knowing the quran . like judaism with its talmud , and christianity with its lives of saints and writings of church fathers , islam has supplementary sacred texts , chief among which is the hadith , a collection of sayings and stories about the prophet .	the quran is viewed as ________ .	the quran is viewed as ________ .
so what we 've got now , is we 've got the ampule , and all the way up here , this is literally a mirror of very thin potassium . potassium is very important . our bodies contain quite a lot of potassium .	why did the professor ’ s colleague say that potassium is an “ evil ” element ?	why did the professor ’ s colleague say that potassium is an “ evil ” element ?
so what we 've got now , is we 've got the ampule , and all the way up here , this is literally a mirror of very thin potassium . potassium is very important . our bodies contain quite a lot of potassium .	which of these fruits contains the most potassium ?	which of these fruits contains the most potassium ?
live burial . the underground chamber contains a portion of bread , water , milk , and oil . she will have a lamp , a bed , and a blanket , but she wo n't emerge alive .	vestals found guilty of incestum were buried alive with a number of items . according to the ancient writer plutarch in life of numa 10.5 , vestals were buried with a portion of bread , water , milk , and oil . why might the romans leave these items in the underground chamber with the priestess ?	vestals found guilty of incestum were buried alive with a number of items . according to the ancient writer plutarch in life of numa 10.5 , vestals were buried with a portion of bread , water , milk , and oil . why might the romans leave these items in the underground chamber with the priestess ?
there are different types of energy , but the differences between them are manifested only in how they make stuff behave . we do know that the total amount of all the different types of energy in the universe is always the same . and , for chemists , two important types of energy are chemical potential energy and kinetic energy . potential energy is energy waiting to happen . think of a stretched rubber band .	the total amount of all energy in the universe is ________ .	the total amount of all energy in the universe is ________ .
we usually imagine these microscopic organisms , or microbes , as asocial cells that float around by themselves . but in reality , microbes gather by the millions to form vast communities known as biofilms . natural biofilms are like miniature jungles filled with many kinds of microbes from across the web of life . bacteria and archaea mingle with other microbes like algae , fungi , and protozoa , forming dense , organized structures that grow on almost any surface .	why are biofilms considered an example of cooperation between microbes ?	why are biofilms considered an example of cooperation between microbes ?
and warmer eyes and brains keep the sharks alert in cold waters . with these amazing adaptations , there 's more to revere than fear from the 500 shark species roaming our oceans . unfortunately , one-third of these species are threatened due to overfishing .	how many shark species are in existence today ?	how many shark species are in existence today ?
radiation and most forms of chemo work by physically shredding the cells ' dna or disrupting the copying machinery . but neither radiation nor chemotherapeutic drugs target only cancer cells . radiation hits whatever you point it at , and your blood stream carries chemo-therapeutics all over your body .	why are chemotherapeutic drugs generally successful against cancer cells ?	why are chemotherapeutic drugs generally successful against cancer cells ?
this is composed of structural proteins , like collagen , secreted by specialized fibroblast cells . well-arranged ecm allows for transportation of nutrients , cell-to-cell communication , and cell adhesion . but when a deep wound occurs , this arrangement is disrupted .	which of the following functions do well-arranged ecm in the body carry out ?	which of the following functions do well-arranged ecm in the body carry out ?
the dissolved ibuprofen travels into the small intestine and then across the intestinal wall into a network of blood vessels . these blood vessels feed into a vein , which carries the blood , and anything in it , to the liver . the next step is to make it through the liver .	an average value of 90l/h is considered normal for the circulatory blood flow ( 1 loop per minute ) . what is the consequence of hypotension ( slow blood flow ) and of hypertension ( fast blood flow ) on drug processing by the body ?	an average value of 90l/h is considered normal for the circulatory blood flow ( 1 loop per minute ) . what is the consequence of hypotension ( slow blood flow ) and of hypertension ( fast blood flow ) on drug processing by the body ?
the theory not only shattered our previous understanding of reality but would also pave the way for technologies , ranging from particle accelerators , to the global positioning system . one might think that this was enough , but in september , a fourth paper arrived as a `` by the way '' follow-up to the special relativity paper . einstein had thought a little bit more about his theory , and realized it also implied that mass and energy , one apparently solid and the other supposedly ethereal , were actually equivalent . and their relationship could be expressed in what was to become the most famous and consequential equation in history : e=mc^2 .	quotations attributed to einstein appear all over the place . though a good number are actually fake , he did have a way with words and left us with many pithy and profound sayings . the quotations below are authentic einstein ( in translation from german ) . which ones resonate with you the most , and why ? “ the important thing is not to stop questioning . curiosity has its own reason for existing . one can not help but be in awe when one contemplates the mystery of eternity , of life , of the marvelous structure of reality . it is enough if one tries to comprehend only a little of this mystery every day. ” “ one should not pursue goals that are easily achieved . one must develop an instinct for what one can just barely achieve through one ’ s greatest efforts. ” “ it strikes me as unfair , and even in bad taste , to select a few individuals for boundless admiration , attributing superhuman powers of mind and character to them . this has been my fate , and the contrast between the popular assessment of my powers and achievements and the reality is simply grotesque. ” “ try to become not a person of success , but try rather to become a person of value. ” “ it ’ s not that i ’ m so smart , it ’ s just that i stay with problems longer. ” ( though this remark is often attributed to einstein , he probably did not say it . but it is something he could have said because the second part about tenacity and resilience was true about him . )	quotations attributed to einstein appear all over the place . though a good number are actually fake , he did have a way with words and left us with many pithy and profound sayings . the quotations below are authentic einstein ( in translation from german ) . which ones resonate with you the most , and why ? “ the important thing is not to stop questioning . curiosity has its own reason for existing . one can not help but be in awe when one contemplates the mystery of eternity , of life , of the marvelous structure of reality . it is enough if one tries to comprehend only a little of this mystery every day. ” “ one should not pursue goals that are easily achieved . one must develop an instinct for what one can just barely achieve through one ’ s greatest efforts. ” “ it strikes me as unfair , and even in bad taste , to select a few individuals for boundless admiration , attributing superhuman powers of mind and character to them . this has been my fate , and the contrast between the popular assessment of my powers and achievements and the reality is simply grotesque. ” “ try to become not a person of success , but try rather to become a person of value. ” “ it ’ s not that i ’ m so smart , it ’ s just that i stay with problems longer. ” ( though this remark is often attributed to einstein , he probably did not say it . but it is something he could have said because the second part about tenacity and resilience was true about him . )
dark matter has not yet been directly observed , but scientists believe that it is likely to be real , mostly because the other options have been ruled out . using dozens of approaches , astronomers and physicists continue to search for direct evidence that would prove that the dark matter hypothesis is true . this question is one of the most important physics research questions of the 21st century .	every day physicists learn more about our universe by probing deeper and deeper into space . if you were a physicists , what questions would you want to try to answer ?	every day physicists learn more about our universe by probing deeper and deeper into space . if you were a physicists , what questions would you want to try to answer ?
in the epic poem , aeneas is on a quest to establish a new home for his people . this duty , or pietas as the romans called it , faces all kinds of obstacles . aeneas risks destruction in the ruins of troy , agonizes over love when he meets the beautiful queen of carthage , dido , and in one of the most vivid passages in all of ancient literature , has to pass through the underworld .	what does the latin word pietas mean ?	what does the latin word pietas mean ?
how can we fully control this process ? how do photoreceptors rewire themselves into the retina ? and is it even possible to trigger this in humans ?	we have all the photoreceptors we 'll ever have at :	we have all the photoreceptors we 'll ever have at :
period . we 've learned three big lessons about relationships . the first is that social connections are really good for us , and that loneliness kills .	briefly describe the three big lessons about relationships that the study has offered .	briefly describe the three big lessons about relationships that the study has offered .
malawi is one of the poorest countries , very poor , where gender equality is questionable . growing up in that country , i could n't make my own choices in life . i could n't even explore personal opportunities in life .	what country is memory from ?	what country is memory from ?
the new princedom had complex relations with its neighbors , alternating between alliance and warfare with the khazar and byzantine empires , as well as neighboring tribes . religion played an important role in politics , and as the legend goes , in 987 , the rus prince vladamir i decided it was time to abandon slavic paganism , and sent emissaries to explore neighboring faiths . put off by islam 's prohibition on alcohol and judaism 's expulsion from its holy land , the ruler settled on orthodox christianity after hearing odd accounts of its ceremonies .	to which religion did vladimir i convert ?	to which religion did vladimir i convert ?
what does it take to persuade people ? 2,300 years ago , aristotle wrote the single most important work on persuasion , < i > rhetoric < /i > , the 3 means of persuasion : logos , ethos , and pathos . logos is that the idea makes sense from the audience 's point of view .	who wrote `` rhetoric : the three means of persuasion '' ?	who wrote `` rhetoric : the three means of persuasion '' ?
what does it take to persuade people ? 2,300 years ago , aristotle wrote the single most important work on persuasion , < i > rhetoric < /i > , the 3 means of persuasion : logos , ethos , and pathos . logos is that the idea makes sense from the audience 's point of view .	which is not a means of persuasion ?	which is not a means of persuasion ?
what does it take to persuade people ? 2,300 years ago , aristotle wrote the single most important work on persuasion , < i > rhetoric < /i > , the 3 means of persuasion : logos , ethos , and pathos . logos is that the idea makes sense from the audience 's point of view .	what can you add to aristotle 's three means of persuasion to make your ideas even more successful realities ?	what can you add to aristotle 's three means of persuasion to make your ideas even more successful realities ?
this superposition of states also leads to modern technology . an electron near the nucleus of an atom exists in a spread out , wave-like orbit . bring two atoms close together , and the electrons do n't need to choose just one atom but are shared between them . this is how some chemical bonds form .	an electron in the vicinity of two nearby atoms will be orbiting :	an electron in the vicinity of two nearby atoms will be orbiting :
those are called similes . a simile is a metaphor that admits it 's making a comparison . similes tend to make you think .	a simile is	a simile is
and people who use wheelchairs only make up about 65 million , or 15 % of the total . the vast majority have non-visible disabilities . accessible parking spaces , facilities , and entrances are designed with that entire group in mind .	what types of non-visible disabilities can you think of ? how many of these might benefit from accessible facilities ? which facilities ? why ?	what types of non-visible disabilities can you think of ? how many of these might benefit from accessible facilities ? which facilities ? why ?
and people who use wheelchairs only make up about 65 million , or 15 % of the total . the vast majority have non-visible disabilities . accessible parking spaces , facilities , and entrances are designed with that entire group in mind .	what does accessibility mean in regard to individuals with disabilities ?	what does accessibility mean in regard to individuals with disabilities ?
but there are lots of more common -- and less obvious -- ways your hormones can get out of balance , not because of some disorder , but because these signaling chemicals are just caught up in a chain reaction , which can take a while to subside . some hormones just exist to control other hormones , which in turn control still more hormones . so as soon as one starts to trickle out , you can pretty quickly wind up with a cascade on your hands .	hormones control and regulate which of these functions ?	hormones control and regulate which of these functions ?
but there are lots of more common -- and less obvious -- ways your hormones can get out of balance , not because of some disorder , but because these signaling chemicals are just caught up in a chain reaction , which can take a while to subside . some hormones just exist to control other hormones , which in turn control still more hormones . so as soon as one starts to trickle out , you can pretty quickly wind up with a cascade on your hands .	which hormones does the pituitary produce and what function do those hormones serve ?	which hormones does the pituitary produce and what function do those hormones serve ?
that is , if we can catch them . neutrinos ' limited interactions with other matter might make them great messengers , but it also makes them extremely hard to detect . one way to do so is to put a huge volume of pure transparent material in their path and wait for a neutrino to reveal itself by colliding with the nucleus of an atom .	why do you think neutrinos are so hard to detect ?	why do you think neutrinos are so hard to detect ?
this pattern will continue until all 100 of you have gone . the words in the lockers that remain open at the end will help you crack the code for the safe . before cousin thaddeus can even start down the line , you step forward and tell the lawyer you know which lockers will remain open . but how ?	solve a smaller problem . draw out a diagram for 20 lockers . how many lockers remain open ?	solve a smaller problem . draw out a diagram for 20 lockers . how many lockers remain open ?
so element 96 was curium which named after marie curie and pierre curie who were the discoverers of radium . because of its high levels of radioactivity curium can be used in thermoelectric generators to produce electricity and you ’ ll get about 120 watts per hour out of one of these .	pierre curie was killed in 1906 and his wife , the famous marie curie , died in 1934. do you know when curium , named after this pair of great scientists , was discovered ?	pierre curie was killed in 1906 and his wife , the famous marie curie , died in 1934. do you know when curium , named after this pair of great scientists , was discovered ?
this would obviously change the frequency in the gene pool . the pointer finger should remind you of movement . if new individuals flow into an area , or immigrate , the frequency will change . if individuals flow out of an area , or emigrate , then the frequency will change .	which of the following terms represents the movement of individuals into or out of an area ?	which of the following terms represents the movement of individuals into or out of an area ?
raising the temperature to 200 degrees celsius burns off any moisture , and hundreds of vacuum pumps take two weeks to trap enough gas and debris out of the pipes for the collider 's incredibly sensitive experiments . even with all this , the large hadron collider is n't a perfect vacuum . in the emptiest places , there are still about 100,000 particles per cubic centimeter .	what industrial processes need high or even ultrahigh vacuum ?	what industrial processes need high or even ultrahigh vacuum ?
numbers have been a fact of life throughout recorded history . early humans likely counted animals in a flock or members in a tribe using body parts or tally marks . but as the complexity of life increased , along with the number of things to count , these methods were no longer sufficient .	what is the difference between additive and positional numerical systems and what are the benefits and disadvantages of using one system rather than the other ? can you think of some instances in which we still use tally marks or similar tools ?	what is the difference between additive and positional numerical systems and what are the benefits and disadvantages of using one system rather than the other ? can you think of some instances in which we still use tally marks or similar tools ?
like , melville 's famous great white wall of whale , that terrifying blankness of nature . and to dickinson , white , you were the color of passion and intensity . this reminds us that our symbolic relationships are n't fixed .	why do you think dickinson only wore white ?	why do you think dickinson only wore white ?
so here you can see we have a very thin foil sample of dysprosium . again it is from the bottom end of the periodic table , very , very reactive .	considering its preferred oxidation state , what do you think will be the product of its oxidation in air ?	considering its preferred oxidation state , what do you think will be the product of its oxidation in air ?
but it takes energy to store them in one place , and , thanks to our friend albert einstein , we know that energy and mass are related . okay , so here 's the thing : let 's say you 're watching a youtube video at a really nice resolution , 720p . assuming a typical bit rate , we can figure that a minute of youtube video is going to need to involve about 10 million electrons on your device . plugging all those electrons and the energy it takes to hold them in the correct place for you to see the video , into that formula , we can figure out that one minute of youtube video increases the mass of your computer by about 10 to the negative 19th grams .	how many electrons are involved in a minute of youtube video ?	how many electrons are involved in a minute of youtube video ?
so here , this is a really quite unusual sample from goodfellow and you see this is samarium , so this is one of the lanthanides . ok so samarium is a beautiful element to work with as it can change what we refer to as oxidation states very easily which gives it many more things it can do in chemistry . it ’ s also a fascinating element in the sense that we can use it to date samples from the moon .	why did steve say that samarium is a beautiful element to work with in the research lab ?	why did steve say that samarium is a beautiful element to work with in the research lab ?
usually this occurs when a wild flu virus circulating in ducks and farm poultry meets a pig virus , and they exchange genes . this process is known as antigenic shift and has occurred throughout human history . the first recorded pandemic occurred in 1580 .	what is antigenic shift ?	what is antigenic shift ?
most acid-base chemistry takes place in water , which can act as either an acid or a base , accepting deposits and enabling withdrawals like a 24-hour molecular atm . and when a proton-deposit customer , that 's an acid , and a proton-withdrawal customer , the base , shop at the same time , their net effect on water 's account may cancel out , and we call this neutralization . now , certain molecules can behave as acids or bases without water , but that 's another story .	a proton deposit customer ( an acid ) is most similar to ________ .	a proton deposit customer ( an acid ) is most similar to ________ .
in the winter of 1995 , scientists pointed the hubble telescope at an area of the sky near the big dipper , a spot that was dark and out of the way of light pollution from surrounding stars . the location was apparently empty , and the whole endeavor was risky .	which statement below best describes the area of sky the hubble image in 1995 ?	which statement below best describes the area of sky the hubble image in 1995 ?
as plastics sit there being compressed amongst layers of other junk , rainwater flows through the waste and absorbs the water-soluble compounds it contains , and some of those are highly toxic . together , they create a harmful stew called leachate , which can move into groundwater , soil and streams , poisoning ecosystems and harming wildlife . it can take bottle one an agonizing 1,000 years to decompose .	leachate is produced as :	leachate is produced as :
the nose 's contribution to romance is more than noticing perfume or cologne . it 's able to pick up on natural chemical signals known as pheromones . these not only convey important physical or genetic information about their source but are able to activate a physiological or behavioral response in the recipient . in one study , a group of women at different points in their ovulation cycles wore the same t-shirts for three nights .	a chemical messenger emitted from one organism that activates a physiological or behavioral response in another is called what ?	a chemical messenger emitted from one organism that activates a physiological or behavioral response in another is called what ?
and as information becomes that light , it becomes a lot more democratic , meaning that more teachers and presenters and creators and viewers than ever before can be involved . right now , on youtube , there is an explosion of content like this happening . the three vsauce channels are down there in the corner .	according to stevens , what is good youtube bait ?	according to stevens , what is good youtube bait ?
because security is tight and the eggs are so large , she 'll only get the chance to steal one by dropping it out the window into her waiting truck and repelling down before the police can arrive . all eggs are identical in weight and construction , but each floor 's egg is more rare and valuable than the one below it . while the thief would naturally like to take the priceless egg at the top , she suspects it wo n't survive a 100-story drop . being pragmatic , she decides to settle for the most expensive egg she can get .	suppose the thief had 3 eggs for the experiments . how would this make a difference ( if at all ) ?	suppose the thief had 3 eggs for the experiments . how would this make a difference ( if at all ) ?
because this historical language was never written down , we can only reconstruct it by comparing its descendants , which is possible thanks to the consistency of the changes . we can even use the same process to go back one step further , and trace the origins of proto-germanic to a language called proto-indo-european , spoken about 6000 years ago on the pontic steppe in modern day ukraine and russia . this is the reconstructed ancestor of the indo-european family that includes nearly all languages historically spoken in europe , as well as large parts of southern and western asia .	proto-indo-european was most likely spoken in _____ .	proto-indo-european was most likely spoken in _____ .
because this historical language was never written down , we can only reconstruct it by comparing its descendants , which is possible thanks to the consistency of the changes . we can even use the same process to go back one step further , and trace the origins of proto-germanic to a language called proto-indo-european , spoken about 6000 years ago on the pontic steppe in modern day ukraine and russia . this is the reconstructed ancestor of the indo-european family that includes nearly all languages historically spoken in europe , as well as large parts of southern and western asia .	while we talked about the origin of indo-european as being in russia and ukraine , another prominent hypothesis places the indo-european homeland in modern day turkey . why might researchers have come to different conclusions ?	while we talked about the origin of indo-european as being in russia and ukraine , another prominent hypothesis places the indo-european homeland in modern day turkey . why might researchers have come to different conclusions ?
but here 's the cool thing : quantum mechanics tells us it 's possible to erase the both cats alive and both cats dead outcomes from the superposition state . in other words , there can be a two cat system , such that the outcome will always be one cat alive and the other cat dead . the technical term for this is that the states of the cats are entangled .	in the schrodinger ’ s cat experiment , before its state is observed the cat is in a :	in the schrodinger ’ s cat experiment , before its state is observed the cat is in a :
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar what do horror movies and comedies have in common ? the two genres might seem totally different , but the reason they 're both so popular is perhaps because what they have in common : their use of dramatic irony . first , let 's clarify .	which is not a common type of irony ?	which is not a common type of irony ?
so at this point we have to rely on a different method using indicators we call standard candles . standard candles are objects whose intrinsic brightness , or luminosity , we know really well . for example , if you know how bright your light bulb is , and you ask your friend to hold the light bulb and walk away from you , you know that the amount of light you receive from your friend will decrease by the distance squared .	besides standard candles ( objects that we know the intrinsic brightness of ) , astronomers can use “ standard rulers ” to obtain distances of astronomical objects . standard rulers are objects whose intrinsic length we know . explain , in principle , how standard rulers can be used to obtain distances .	besides standard candles ( objects that we know the intrinsic brightness of ) , astronomers can use “ standard rulers ” to obtain distances of astronomical objects . standard rulers are objects whose intrinsic length we know . explain , in principle , how standard rulers can be used to obtain distances .
that life could be benevolent , as we would hope to be if humans are one day able to achieve interstellar travel . or it could be hostile . searching for planets that might have life means staring into a great abyss . we 'll likely have no clear knowledge of the evolutionary stage , sentience , character , or intentions of the first form of life we discover .	in this particular area of study , one of the ways astronomers look for planets where life might exist is to look for planets that could be warm enough for surface :	in this particular area of study , one of the ways astronomers look for planets where life might exist is to look for planets that could be warm enough for surface :
whatchoo got ? tell us your fidgeting functions down below . fidgeting might be annoying to some , but sitting is killing you . yep .	what are the modern scientific explanations that might explain fidgeting ?	what are the modern scientific explanations that might explain fidgeting ?
for antioxidant activity without a smoky flavor , there are compounds like bht and tocopherol , better known as vitamin e. like the compounds in smoke , these sop up free radicals and stave off rancid flavors that can develop in foods like oils , cheese , and cereal . other antioxidants like citric acid and ascorbic acid help cut produce keep its color by thwarting the enzyme that causes browning . some compounds like sulfites can multitask .	which of these can prevent cut produce from browning ?	which of these can prevent cut produce from browning ?
but how do we explain the most enduring aspect of ghost ship legends : multiple sightings of the same ships hundreds of miles and several years apart ? the answer lies in ocean currents , which are like invisible rivers flowing through the ocean . factors , like temperature , salinity , wind , gravity , and the coriolis effect from the earth 's rotation create a complex system of water movement .	how did derelict ships become a proxy for mapping ocean currents ?	how did derelict ships become a proxy for mapping ocean currents ?
but , enough mutations can bypass the fail-safes , driving the cell to divide recklessly . that one rogue cell becomes two , then four , then eight . at every stage , the incorrect instructions are passed along to the cells ' offspring .	why does n't cancer just die off after one rogue division ?	why does n't cancer just die off after one rogue division ?
with vladimir 's conversion and marriage to the byzantine emperor 's sister , as well as continued trade along the volga route , the relationship between the two civilizations deepened . byzantine missionaries created an alphabet for slavic languages based on a modified greek script while rus viking warriors served as the byzantine emperor 's elite guard . for several generations , the kievan rus flourished from its rich resources and trade .	which of the following is not an existent source of knowledge for early slavic history ?	which of the following is not an existent source of knowledge for early slavic history ?
with vladimir 's conversion and marriage to the byzantine emperor 's sister , as well as continued trade along the volga route , the relationship between the two civilizations deepened . byzantine missionaries created an alphabet for slavic languages based on a modified greek script while rus viking warriors served as the byzantine emperor 's elite guard . for several generations , the kievan rus flourished from its rich resources and trade .	why did the slavic tribes invite the viking invaders back after expelling them ?	why did the slavic tribes invite the viking invaders back after expelling them ?
now humans have a buddy to keep an eye on the clothing factory , and the milk and cheeseburger machine , and the plow-puller . now farming is easier , which means there 's more benefit to staying put , which means more domestication , which means more food which means more people and more density and oh look where we 're going . citiesville : population : lots ; bring your animals ; plagues welcome .	more domesticated animals means more farming , means less migration , which means people stay put , which means populations grow and become more dense which means cities start to emerge , which creates the ideal setting for what ?	more domesticated animals means more farming , means less migration , which means people stay put , which means populations grow and become more dense which means cities start to emerge , which creates the ideal setting for what ?
they may cause a gene to make its protein in a different organ , or at a different time of life , or the protein may start doing a different job altogether . in snakes , for example , there 's a gene that makes a protein for killing bacteria . long ago , the gene duplicated and the new copy mutated . that mutation changed the signal in the gene about where it should make its protein . instead of becoming active in the snake 's pacreas , it started making this bacteria-killing protein in the snake 's mouth . so when the snake bit its prey , this enzyme got into the animal 's wound .	how did snake venom evolve ? put the following statements from the video in the correct sequence . write your response in paragraph form in complete sentences . a. the protein started to be made in the mouth not in the pancreas b. gene for killing bacteria duplicated , the new copy mutated c. protein helped snake catch more prey and became favored d. snake makes a protein to kill bacteria in pancreas e. the mutation changed signal in the gene about where it should make its protein	how did snake venom evolve ? put the following statements from the video in the correct sequence . write your response in paragraph form in complete sentences . a. the protein started to be made in the mouth not in the pancreas b. gene for killing bacteria duplicated , the new copy mutated c. protein helped snake catch more prey and became favored d. snake makes a protein to kill bacteria in pancreas e. the mutation changed signal in the gene about where it should make its protein
meteorites are classified into three broad categories : stony , which are mostly rock ; iron , which are mostly metal ; and stony iron , which are a mixture of the two . the majority of meteorites we find are stony . the stony meteorites are subdivided into two kinds : chondrites , and achondrites .	meteorites usually fall in one of these categories : stony , iron or stony iron . the majority of meteorites we find are ...	meteorites usually fall in one of these categories : stony , iron or stony iron . the majority of meteorites we find are ...
for example , if both particles are measured at zero , the relationship will always hold . the states of the two are entangled . measuring one will tell you the other with absolute certainty .	entangled states produce perfect correlations between measurements on two different objects in two different locations—knowing the outcome of one measurement tells you the result of the other with perfect accuracy . can you think of a classical example of two measurements whose results are not known in advance but are perfectly correlated ?	entangled states produce perfect correlations between measurements on two different objects in two different locations—knowing the outcome of one measurement tells you the result of the other with perfect accuracy . can you think of a classical example of two measurements whose results are not known in advance but are perfectly correlated ?
muscle contraction can be split into three main types . the first two , shortening muscle fibers and lengthening them , generate opposing forces . so the biceps will shorten while the triceps will lengthen or relax , pulling up the arm and making it bend at the elbow .	if our muscles didn ’ t generate opposing forces , in what specific ways would that limit us ?	if our muscles didn ’ t generate opposing forces , in what specific ways would that limit us ?
some mistletoe species produce dense bushes , which are excellent nesting locations for a variety of birds . and despite their parasitic relationship with trees , mistletoes can also help other plants . for instance , juniper sprouts near mistletoe to benefit from the visiting berry-eating birds .	in the wild , the mistletoes :	in the wild , the mistletoes :
this is the recognizable backbone of many genres popular around the world , from rock , country , and jazz , to reggae and cumbia . or we can combine a two beat rhythm with a three beat one . eliminating the extra main beat and rotating the inner wheel leaves us with a rhythm whose underlying feel is three-four .	try to combine other configurations of these rhythm wheels , perhaps inventing a new rhythm and giving it a name .	try to combine other configurations of these rhythm wheels , perhaps inventing a new rhythm and giving it a name .
these are sickle cells and these are what cause the condition of sickle cell amenia . we 've gone into the mouth now and we 've landed on dental plague , which you can see is covered with bacteria , and in fact dental plague is host to about 1,000 different species of bacteria . lovely to think about .	dental plaque is host to about how many different species of bacteria ?	dental plaque is host to about how many different species of bacteria ?
while negative feedback loops encourage stability by pushing a system towards equilibrium , positive feedback loops destabilize it by enabling larger and larger deviations . and the recently increased impact of positive feedbacks may have consequences far beyond the arctic . on a warming planet , these feedbacks ensure that the north pole warms at a faster rate than the equator .	albedo feedbacks are strongest when :	albedo feedbacks are strongest when :
while negative feedback loops encourage stability by pushing a system towards equilibrium , positive feedback loops destabilize it by enabling larger and larger deviations . and the recently increased impact of positive feedbacks may have consequences far beyond the arctic . on a warming planet , these feedbacks ensure that the north pole warms at a faster rate than the equator .	positive feedbacks tend to :	positive feedbacks tend to :
while negative feedback loops encourage stability by pushing a system towards equilibrium , positive feedback loops destabilize it by enabling larger and larger deviations . and the recently increased impact of positive feedbacks may have consequences far beyond the arctic . on a warming planet , these feedbacks ensure that the north pole warms at a faster rate than the equator .	there is an old saying that goes : “ the rich get richer ” . give possible explanations for the popularity of this phrase , and note any places that feedbacks may contribute to the explanations .	there is an old saying that goes : “ the rich get richer ” . give possible explanations for the popularity of this phrase , and note any places that feedbacks may contribute to the explanations .
this is the actual tomb of qin shi huangdi , reported to contain palaces , precious stones and artifacts , and even rivers of mercury flowing through mountains of bronze . but until a way can be found to expose it without damaging the treasures inside , the tomb remains sealed . emperor qin was not alone in wanting company for his final destination .	within the tombs , archeologists found all of the following except :	within the tombs , archeologists found all of the following except :
even an infinitely extending decimal like this could be expressed exactly as 34/45 . all of these are what we now call rational numbers . but hippasus found one number that violated this harmonious rule , one that was not supposed to exist .	what are rational numbers ?	what are rational numbers ?
as james sylvester wrote , `` may not music be described as the mathematics of the sense , mathematics as music of the reason ? '' the musician feels mathematics . the mathematician thinks music .	describe the chromatic scale on a piano keyboard and how it relates to patterns in mathematics .	describe the chromatic scale on a piano keyboard and how it relates to patterns in mathematics .
and with the same spirit , in 1948 , the un general assembly adopted the universal declaration of human rights . this document , written by an international committee chaired by eleanor roosevelt , lays the basis for modern international human rights law . the declaration is based on the principle that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights .	the basis of contemporary international human rights law is the _____ .	the basis of contemporary international human rights law is the _____ .
the fourth thursday in november . now , because it 's a national holiday on the thursday , you also sort of get that friday as a de facto day off . 'cause you do n't want to go back to work for one day and then have the weekend ; that 's just dumb !	how did black friday become an unofficial national holiday in the united states ?	how did black friday become an unofficial national holiday in the united states ?
so the question is , what are the rules ? and there are many approaches to this , and one of them is one you may have heard of , called string theory . and so it is one of many approaches and we do n't know if it 's right yet , we 're not finished developing the theory , but it 's given us some really exciting , tantalizing hints .	elaborate on one of the tenets of string theory .	elaborate on one of the tenets of string theory .
fortunately , in the 1600s , an amateur mathematician had invented the missing piece . john napier toiled for more than 20 years in his castle in scotland to develop logarithms , a calculation device . napier 's ideas on logarithms involved the form of one over e and the constant 10 to the seventh power .	how long did john napier toil in his castle to invent logarithms ?	how long did john napier toil in his castle to invent logarithms ?
it is 0.2 in diameter and you can see the shiny material underneath is iron that has not undergone oxidation so this is where it has been protected from the oxygen in the air now if we look at the iron at the top we can see that this looks really familiar especially because it looks like some of the rust which we can see at the bottom of some of our cars . so here is some iron oxide on top of the iron . the very first chemical experiment i did the chemical reaction was with iron and i think the same is true for many generations of school children .	why do you think archaeologists find ancient gold or silver objects more easily than iron ones ?	why do you think archaeologists find ancient gold or silver objects more easily than iron ones ?
it is 0.2 in diameter and you can see the shiny material underneath is iron that has not undergone oxidation so this is where it has been protected from the oxygen in the air now if we look at the iron at the top we can see that this looks really familiar especially because it looks like some of the rust which we can see at the bottom of some of our cars . so here is some iron oxide on top of the iron . the very first chemical experiment i did the chemical reaction was with iron and i think the same is true for many generations of school children .	most of the iron in the earth ’ s crust is found combined with oxygen in iron dioxide minerals such as…	most of the iron in the earth ’ s crust is found combined with oxygen in iron dioxide minerals such as…
let 's move on . ok , now what we 're going to do is the base method . ok , this is used to multiply numbers very close to the powers of 10 , like 10 , 100 , 1,000 , and so on .	what is the the base for the number 995 when using the base method ?	what is the the base for the number 995 when using the base method ?
it all begins in the earth 's crust , where the two most common elements are silicon and oxygen . these react together to form silicon dioxide , whose molecules arrange themselves into a regular crystalline form known as quartz . quartz is commonly found in sand , where it often makes up most of the grains and is the main ingredient in most type of glass .	silicon dioxide arranges itself into a crystalline form known as ________ , which is the main ingredient in glass .	silicon dioxide arranges itself into a crystalline form known as ________ , which is the main ingredient in glass .
euclid set out to formalize mathematics by establishing the rules of the game . these rules of the game are called axioms . once you have the rules , euclid says you have to use them to prove what you think is true .	kennedy refers to “ the rules of the game. ” these are	kennedy refers to “ the rules of the game. ” these are
elastic fibers embedded in their walls make them resilient , but if your blood pressure regularly rises above about 140 over 90 , what we call hypertension , and stays there , it can cause serious problems . that 's because the extra strain on the arterial wall can produce small tears . when the injured tissue swells up , substances that respond to the inflammation , like white blood cells , collect around the tears .	what condition describes the thickening of the arterial wall due to the decomposition of plaques of fatty material and inflammatory cells ?	what condition describes the thickening of the arterial wall due to the decomposition of plaques of fatty material and inflammatory cells ?
there are ones that seem to keep going , but in reality , they invariably turn out to be drawing energy from some external source . even if engineers could somehow design a machine that did n't violate the first law of thermodynamics , it still would n't work in the real world because of the second law . the second law of thermodynamics tells us that energy tends to spread out through processes like friction . any real machine would have moving parts or interactions with air or liquid molecules that would generate tiny amounts of friction and heat , even in a vacuum .	why does the second law of thermodynamics make perpetual motion machines impossible ( to date ) ?	why does the second law of thermodynamics make perpetual motion machines impossible ( to date ) ?
and the second boy said , `` i bring you myrrh . '' and the third boy said , `` frank sent this . '' ( laughter ) what these things have in common is that kids will take a chance .	what do the stories about the girl who drew a picture of god and the boy who said `` frank sent this '' in the nativity play tell us about children 's creativity ?	what do the stories about the girl who drew a picture of god and the boy who said `` frank sent this '' in the nativity play tell us about children 's creativity ?
only by educating people to a true solidarity will we be able to overcome the `` culture of waste , '' which does n't concern only food and goods but , first and foremost , the people who are cast aside by our techno-economic systems which , without even realizing it , are now putting products at their core , instead of people . solidarity is a term that many wish to erase from the dictionary . solidarity , however , is not an automatic mechanism .	how does pope francis describe the term ‘ solidarity ’ ?	how does pope francis describe the term ‘ solidarity ’ ?
so my name is kakani katija , and i 'm a bioengineer . i study marine organisms in their natural environment .	what does rov stand for ?	what does rov stand for ?
nobel 's will outlined three criteria for the peace prize , which unlike the other sweden-based prizes , would be administered in norway . disarmament , peace congresses , and brotherhood between nations . these standards have since been expanded to include other ways of promoting peace , such as human rights and negotiations .	alfred nobel mentioned three criteria for the nobel peace prize : disarmament , peace congresses , and brotherhood between nations . why are these relevant for peace work ?	alfred nobel mentioned three criteria for the nobel peace prize : disarmament , peace congresses , and brotherhood between nations . why are these relevant for peace work ?
but this horror had roots in personal trauma , as well . the text is filled with references to shelley 's own circumstances . born in 1797 , mary was the child of william godwin and mary wollstonecraft . both were radical intellectual figures , and her mother 's book , `` a vindication of the rights of women , '' is a key feminist text .	how does mary shelley ’ s position as a young pregnant woman manifest in the text ?	how does mary shelley ’ s position as a young pregnant woman manifest in the text ?
at a senate meeting held shortly before caesar was to depart on his next military campaign , as many as 60 conspirators surrounded him , unsheathing daggers from their togas and stabbing at him from all sides . as the story goes , caesar struggled fiercely until he saw brutus . despite the famous line , `` et tu , brute ? ''	in shakespeares ’ play `` julius caesar , '' he attributes to caesar the final dying lines : `` et tu , brute ? '' what do the ancient sources record ? do these lines affect our reaction to brutus or caesar in any way ?	in shakespeares ’ play `` julius caesar , '' he attributes to caesar the final dying lines : `` et tu , brute ? '' what do the ancient sources record ? do these lines affect our reaction to brutus or caesar in any way ?
they used binary coding to capture a whopping 200 megabytes of data , including the universal declaration of human rights and a high-def ok go music video , all in strings of dna . as far as storage capacity goes , dna stands out because of the surprising amount of information it can hold in so little space . the current theoretical limit of dna 's storage capacity is so high that you could fit 100 million hd movies on a pencil eraser . it 's even conceivable that one day we could fit all of the information currently on the internet into the space of a shoe box . also , computers and the magnetic tape and discs that their information is stored on only last for a few decades , at most , before degrading and becoming unreliable .	if the entire internet was encoded into dna , the smallest space that could fill it would be approximately the size of :	if the entire internet was encoded into dna , the smallest space that could fill it would be approximately the size of :
it is used very often in electric chemistry , because you can form very , very good electrical contact with mercury . and in fact , many people that may have old telephones or old bells , you know the door bells which we have on our front door , inside the ‘ bing-bong ’ , is a mercury-activated switch which turns on the magnet and off the magnet very , very quickly . it is really beautiful .	where can you find mercury by the front door of an old house ?	where can you find mercury by the front door of an old house ?
from there , we dove in . and we used these questions : share some of your life experiences with me . what issues deeply concern you ?	what are the three questions that lesser used to help structure her conversation ?	what are the three questions that lesser used to help structure her conversation ?
and that 's still the ratio on many tvs and computer monitors in today 's homes . the problem is , hardly anybody today treats video content in a 4 to 3 ratio . see , this whole problem started when people wanted to watch movies from the theater in the comfort of their own homes .	when did it become a real problem to have a 4:3 width to height ratio ?	when did it become a real problem to have a 4:3 width to height ratio ?
the earliest date of a specific event in human history , a battle between the armies of lydia and media , occurred on may 28 , 535 b.c.e . when a solar eclipse caused the soldiers to lay down their arms and declare a truce . so how does it happen ?	during which lunar phase does every solar eclipse occur ?	during which lunar phase does every solar eclipse occur ?
up to 75 % of what we put in the waste stream can become food and bedding material for vermicomposting . you can create a worm bin in your own home to see the composting process in action . first off , you need worms and not your typical earthworms . you need redworms , eisenia foetida , the species responsible for most vermicomposting in north america .	worms can create cocoons in the soil as part of their reproduction cycle .	worms can create cocoons in the soil as part of their reproduction cycle .
let 's start with the most famous physics formula ever : e equals m c squared . it basically says that mass is concentrated energy , and mass and energy are exchangeable , like two currencies with a huge exchange rate . 90 trillion joules of energy are equivalent to 1 gram of mass . but how do i actually transform energy into matter ? the magic word is < i > energy density < /i > .	the formula e=mc^2 describes the equivalence between energy and mass . discuss two natural processes where mass is converted to energy . is there a natural process where energy is converted into mass ?	the formula e=mc^2 describes the equivalence between energy and mass . discuss two natural processes where mass is converted to energy . is there a natural process where energy is converted into mass ?
other studies instead claim that the algae actually had a beneficial effect by consuming chemical pollutants -- one reason the aquariums strain was developed . but the disruption of a natural ecosystem by an introduced foreign species can have unpredictable and uncontrollable effects that may not be immediately visible . so when culerpa taxifolia was discovered at carlsbad 's agua hedionda lagoon , near san diego in the year 2000 , having most likely come from the dumping of home aquarium water into a connecting storm drain , it was decided to stop it before it spread .	natural plants and animals have natural controls on their geographic location and overall distribution . this is nature in balance , but invasive species can disrupt that balance . when genetically modified organisms like the aquarium strain of caulerpa taxifolia get established and spread without any way to control it , we can see the damaging effects of genetically modified species . how can we get society to see the dangers of creating something in a laboratory that can not be easily stopped if let loose in the natural environment ?	natural plants and animals have natural controls on their geographic location and overall distribution . this is nature in balance , but invasive species can disrupt that balance . when genetically modified organisms like the aquarium strain of caulerpa taxifolia get established and spread without any way to control it , we can see the damaging effects of genetically modified species . how can we get society to see the dangers of creating something in a laboratory that can not be easily stopped if let loose in the natural environment ?
so a good way to protect yourself is to protect bats as well , keeping them healthy , protecting their habitats , and reducing their risk of transmitting disease . in north america , bats are threatened by a devastating sickness called white-nose syndrome . this fungal infection causes bats to wake up while hibernating during a winter .	white nose syndrome is a disease caused by a :	white nose syndrome is a disease caused by a :
fatty acids with only single bonds are called saturated , and those with one or more double bonds are called unsaturated . now , most unsaturated fats are good for you , while saturated fats are bad for you in excess . for saturated fats , the story pretty much ends there but not for unsaturated fats . the double bonds in these molecules have a kind of weird property ; they 're rigid .	partial hydrogenation of cis ( healthy ) fats results in trans fats . what do you think full hydrogenation of unsaturated fats results in ? draw out the structures of the different types of fats ; this will help you reason through the problem .	partial hydrogenation of cis ( healthy ) fats results in trans fats . what do you think full hydrogenation of unsaturated fats results in ? draw out the structures of the different types of fats ; this will help you reason through the problem .
fatty acids with only single bonds are called saturated , and those with one or more double bonds are called unsaturated . now , most unsaturated fats are good for you , while saturated fats are bad for you in excess . for saturated fats , the story pretty much ends there but not for unsaturated fats . the double bonds in these molecules have a kind of weird property ; they 're rigid .	saturated fats tend to be solids at room temperature , while cis-unsaturated fats tend to be liquids at room temperature . think about the general 3d shape of these molecules and suggest a reason for the difference in the physical properties of each fat .	saturated fats tend to be solids at room temperature , while cis-unsaturated fats tend to be liquids at room temperature . think about the general 3d shape of these molecules and suggest a reason for the difference in the physical properties of each fat .
nestled in the tissues of your neck is a small unassuming organ that wields enormous power over your body . it 's called the thyroid . like the operations manager in a company , its role is to make sure that the cells in your body are working properly .	where is the thyroid situated ?	where is the thyroid situated ?
nestled in the tissues of your neck is a small unassuming organ that wields enormous power over your body . it 's called the thyroid . like the operations manager in a company , its role is to make sure that the cells in your body are working properly .	the pituitary controls the thyroid .	the pituitary controls the thyroid .
nestled in the tissues of your neck is a small unassuming organ that wields enormous power over your body . it 's called the thyroid . like the operations manager in a company , its role is to make sure that the cells in your body are working properly .	imagine you had an over-active or underactive thyroid . list all the reasons why this would be both unpleasant , and unhealthy , for you .	imagine you had an over-active or underactive thyroid . list all the reasons why this would be both unpleasant , and unhealthy , for you .
it represents an amount of digital information , which is uncomfortable to store , transport , or analyze . big data is so voluminous that it overwhelms the technologies of the day and challenges us to create the next generation of data storage tools and techniques . so , big data is n't new . in fact , physicists at cern have been rangling with the challenge of their ever-expanding big data for decades . fifty years ago , cern 's data could be stored in a single computer . ok , so it was n't your usual computer , this was a mainframe computer that filled an entire building .	how does cloud computing help us analyze big data	how does cloud computing help us analyze big data
but maybe this is a quirk of rats , right ? well , helpfully , there was a human experiment along the same lines : the vietnam war . 20 % of american troops in vietnam were using a lot of heroin . people back home were really panicked , because they thought there would be hundreds of thousands of junkies on the streets of the united states when the war was over .	according to this video , 20 % of us soldiers fighting in the vietnam war were heroin users . what percentage of them stopped using heroin after returning home from war ?	according to this video , 20 % of us soldiers fighting in the vietnam war were heroin users . what percentage of them stopped using heroin after returning home from war ?
look ! they fit together perfectly . '' another bee suggested squares .	repeating shapes so that they fit together without spaces in between them is called a _________________ .	repeating shapes so that they fit together without spaces in between them is called a _________________ .
as felix was becoming more popular , the animator bill nolan decided to remove his snout and make him more circular overall . john : and that design—what they call the rubber hose and circle design , very spaghetti-like arms of the characters— continued to the design of mickey mouse as well . this rubber hose and circle aesthetic allowed animators to quickly draw arms , legs , and heads without spending too much time developing realistic details of the character ’ s body—like elbows and knees .	what are some characters that were drawn using the rubber hose and circle design ?	what are some characters that were drawn using the rubber hose and circle design ?
but when you repeat the experiment many times , all the individual electrons trace out a pattern of stripes , characteristic of wave behavior . the idea that particles behave like waves , and vice versa , is one of the strangest and most powerful in physics . richard feynman famously said that this illustrates the central mystery of quantum mechanics .	quantum mechanics tells us that everything in the universe has some characteristics of waves , and some characteristics of particles . can you think of any other examples ( in physics or another subject ) of things that turn out to be described not as purely one thing or another , but a mix of two different models ?	quantum mechanics tells us that everything in the universe has some characteristics of waves , and some characteristics of particles . can you think of any other examples ( in physics or another subject ) of things that turn out to be described not as purely one thing or another , but a mix of two different models ?
either it 's not a monty python fan , or it ca n't understand me . i 'd say this is like spot-on fluent wernicke 's aphasia , damage to an area at the junction of two of the brain 's lobes , temporal and parietal , typically on the left side of the brain , is the culprit . this area is physically connected to broca 's area , that you mentioned , by a massive bundle of neurofibers called the arcuate fasciculus .	why is it important to think of “ networks ” of brain areas when trying to understand how the brain performs everyday behaviors like walking , talking , seeing , etc. ? how is the communication between different brain areas just as important as each area itself ?	why is it important to think of “ networks ” of brain areas when trying to understand how the brain performs everyday behaviors like walking , talking , seeing , etc. ? how is the communication between different brain areas just as important as each area itself ?
these are all parasites , organisms that live on or inside another host organism , which they harm and sometimes even kill . parasite survival depends on transmitting from one host to the next , sometimes through an intermediate species . our parasites elegantly achieve this by manipulating their host 's behavior , sometimes through direct brain hijacking .	tsetse flies transmit the protozoan parasite that causes african sleeping sickness in humans . what type of host manipulation may you expect to see here ?	tsetse flies transmit the protozoan parasite that causes african sleeping sickness in humans . what type of host manipulation may you expect to see here ?
these are all parasites , organisms that live on or inside another host organism , which they harm and sometimes even kill . parasite survival depends on transmitting from one host to the next , sometimes through an intermediate species . our parasites elegantly achieve this by manipulating their host 's behavior , sometimes through direct brain hijacking .	toxoplasma is an example of a trophically transmitted parasite : a parasite that infects a definitive host ( a cat in the case of toxoplasma ) when that definitive host eats an intermediate host ( a rodent in the case of toxoplasma ) . another trophically transmitted parasite is the trematode flatworm leucochloridium paradoxum . this parasite infects the tentacles of snails , making them look like pulsating caterpillars . provide a hypothesis for this manipulation of the snail host .	toxoplasma is an example of a trophically transmitted parasite : a parasite that infects a definitive host ( a cat in the case of toxoplasma ) when that definitive host eats an intermediate host ( a rodent in the case of toxoplasma ) . another trophically transmitted parasite is the trematode flatworm leucochloridium paradoxum . this parasite infects the tentacles of snails , making them look like pulsating caterpillars . provide a hypothesis for this manipulation of the snail host .
it 's your immune system . seasonal allergies , also called hay fever , or allergic rhinitis , are a hypersensitive immune response to something that 's not actually harmful . pollen from trees and grass , and mold spores from tiny fungi find their way into your mucous membranes and your body attacks these innocuous travelers the same way it would infectious bacteria .	people with seasonal allergies also have higher rates of autoimmune diseases like asthma and eczema . why might this be ?	people with seasonal allergies also have higher rates of autoimmune diseases like asthma and eczema . why might this be ?
but what about other species ? how do the animals all around us experience pain ? it 's important that we find out .	humans can talk to each other about their feelings of pain . what are some ways other vertebrate animals might show that they are in pain too ?	humans can talk to each other about their feelings of pain . what are some ways other vertebrate animals might show that they are in pain too ?
but what about other species ? how do the animals all around us experience pain ? it 's important that we find out .	why is it hard to know whether animals that are very different to us , like invertebrates , experience pain ?	why is it hard to know whether animals that are very different to us , like invertebrates , experience pain ?
but what about other species ? how do the animals all around us experience pain ? it 's important that we find out .	how many kinds of animals experience nociception ?	how many kinds of animals experience nociception ?
ani was a real person , a scribe from the egyptian city of thebes who lived in the 13th century bce . and depicted here is a scene from his book of the dead , a 78-foot papyrus scroll designed to help him attain immortality . such funerary texts were originally written only for pharaohs , but with time , the egyptians came to believe regular people could also reach the afterlife if they succeeded in the passage .	how does a `` book of the dead '' help someone reach the afterlife ?	how does a `` book of the dead '' help someone reach the afterlife ?
let 's zoom way back and put you in a little satellite over the north pole of the earth and consider north to be up . you 're going to fall down and hit the earth . but you are actually moving sideways really fast .	when a satellite is orbiting the earth , it doesn ’ t hit the earth because	when a satellite is orbiting the earth , it doesn ’ t hit the earth because
we can measure and count those oscillations . it 's how atomic clocks work . making atomic clocks , the most accurate measurement device ever built by humans , to measure anything .	why are atomic clocks the most precise way of telling time ?	why are atomic clocks the most precise way of telling time ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar imagine a microscopic-sized ladder contained in the part of our brain that we 'll label our subconscious . the ladder of inference , which was first proposed by harvard professor chris argyris , is the basis of this model . every time we interact with someone , that experience enters the ladder at the bottom .	who first proposed the ladder of inference ?	who first proposed the ladder of inference ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar imagine a microscopic-sized ladder contained in the part of our brain that we 'll label our subconscious . the ladder of inference , which was first proposed by harvard professor chris argyris , is the basis of this model . every time we interact with someone , that experience enters the ladder at the bottom .	the first ( bottom ) rung of the ladder of inference focuses on :	the first ( bottom ) rung of the ladder of inference focuses on :
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar imagine a microscopic-sized ladder contained in the part of our brain that we 'll label our subconscious . the ladder of inference , which was first proposed by harvard professor chris argyris , is the basis of this model . every time we interact with someone , that experience enters the ladder at the bottom .	the ladder of inference helps us understand how we can better control and manage our emotions by :	the ladder of inference helps us understand how we can better control and manage our emotions by :
this is where you may have see `` deadliest catch '' framed , in the northernmost part of the pacific ocean . we 've been looking specifically at krill , one of the most important food items in this habitat . these half-inch long shrimp-like critters are about the caloric equivalent of a heavily buttered kernel of popcorn .	why is it important to study food densities in the ocean ?	why is it important to study food densities in the ocean ?
our varying skin tones were formed by an evolutionary process driven by the sun . in began some 50,000 years ago when our ancestors migrated north from africa and into europe and asia . these ancient humans lived between the equator and the tropic of capricorn , a region saturated by the sun 's uv-carrying rays .	from and to where where did the early ancestors of humans migrate nearly 50,000 years ago ?	from and to where where did the early ancestors of humans migrate nearly 50,000 years ago ?
in 1796 , the scientist edward jenner injected material from a cowpox virus into an eight-year-old boy with a hunch that this would provide the protection needed to save people from deadly outbreaks of the related smallpox virus . it was a success .	edward jenner succeeded in creating a vaccine against smallpox by injecting patients with material of which disease ?	edward jenner succeeded in creating a vaccine against smallpox by injecting patients with material of which disease ?
in 1796 , the scientist edward jenner injected material from a cowpox virus into an eight-year-old boy with a hunch that this would provide the protection needed to save people from deadly outbreaks of the related smallpox virus . it was a success .	why does inoculating with cowpox protect against smallpox but a standard flu vaccine can not protect against every flu strain ?	why does inoculating with cowpox protect against smallpox but a standard flu vaccine can not protect against every flu strain ?
the first prints like this were for records only with no extra details . it was n't until the mid 1800 's that they began painting eye details and other embellishments onto the prints . one famous nobleman , lord sakai , was an avid fisherman , and , when he made a large catch , he wanted to preserve the memory of the large , red sea bream .	when did eye details and other embellishments start showing up on gyotaku ?	when did eye details and other embellishments start showing up on gyotaku ?
so the centuries passed with britains happily speaking old english , but in the 700 's , a series of viking invasions began , which continued until a treaty split the island in half . on one side were the saxons . on the other side were the danes who spoke a language called old norse . as saxons fell in love with their cute danish neighbors and marriages blurred the boundaries , old norse mixed with old english , and many old norse words like freckle , leg , root , skin , and want are still a part of our language . 300 years later , in 1066 , the norman conquest brought war again to the british isles .	what were the factors that enabled the old norse and saxon languages to mix , rather than one replacing the other ?	what were the factors that enabled the old norse and saxon languages to mix , rather than one replacing the other ?
but to the bigger picture , and the larger questions . what should we make of the cotton gin ? history has proven that inventions can be double-edged swords .	the word “ gin ” in “ cotton gin ” means	the word “ gin ” in “ cotton gin ” means
some of those genes have quite different sequences of nucleotides than yours , and some are similar to yours . though it happens infrequently , our own nucleotide sequences can change as the result of spontaneous or environmental damage which might remove or shift a nucleotide position . this changes the gene involved , and can then change the protein .	it 's infrequent , but our own nucleotide sequences can change as the result of spontaneous or environmental damage ( which might remove or shift a nucleotide position ) . what does this change ?	it 's infrequent , but our own nucleotide sequences can change as the result of spontaneous or environmental damage ( which might remove or shift a nucleotide position ) . what does this change ?
they are used by corporations evading taxes , rogue governments skirting sanctions , terrorists buying arms , and dictators financing wars . organized crime groups launder their profits through anonymous companies . corrupt government officials award valuable contracts to corporations they secretly own .	where do anonymous companies operate ?	where do anonymous companies operate ?
they are used by corporations evading taxes , rogue governments skirting sanctions , terrorists buying arms , and dictators financing wars . organized crime groups launder their profits through anonymous companies . corrupt government officials award valuable contracts to corporations they secretly own .	how can anonymous companies be used to launder money and facilitate crimes ?	how can anonymous companies be used to launder money and facilitate crimes ?
and while you 're at it , watch their youtube videos and like them on facebook . election time . we all know the look and feel of modern campaigns .	how involved are you in the presidential election ? do you vote ? do you volunteer on campaigns ? do you donate money ? do you feel like you 're knowledgable enough to make an informed decision about who to vote for ? where do you go to get your information ?	how involved are you in the presidential election ? do you vote ? do you volunteer on campaigns ? do you donate money ? do you feel like you 're knowledgable enough to make an informed decision about who to vote for ? where do you go to get your information ?
one line of verse is usually made up of several feet . for example , a dactyl is a metrical foot of three syllables with the first stressed , and the second and third unstressed . dactyls can create lines that move swiftly and gather force , as in robert browning 's poem , `` the lost leader . ''	which of these is not a type of metrical foot ?	which of these is not a type of metrical foot ?
perhaps the greatest testimony to islam ’ s power to organize peoples lives and their communities is that , in egypt , 5 times a day millions of people turn away from the pyramids and toward mecca . egypt , birthplace to one of the longest continuous cultures the world has ever known , is now the largest arab country in the world . next week we ’ ll talk about the dark ages .	which of the following is the largest arab country in the world ?	which of the following is the largest arab country in the world ?
the british east india company also wanted to be able to grow tea themselves and further control the market . so they commissioned botanist robert fortune to steal tea from china in a covert operation . he disguised himself and took a perilous journey through china 's mountainous tea regions , eventually smuggling tea trees and experienced tea workers into darjeeling , india . from there , the plant spread further still , helping drive tea 's rapid growth as an everyday commodity .	although the plant ’ s origins lie in china , tea is now enjoyed the world over with many words for tea in various languages resemble its names in china . what role might tea have played in globalization ?	although the plant ’ s origins lie in china , tea is now enjoyed the world over with many words for tea in various languages resemble its names in china . what role might tea have played in globalization ?
about 20 % of them would never see land again . most captains of the day were tight packers , cramming as many men as possible below deck . while the lack of sanitation caused many to die of disease , and others were thrown overboard for being sick , or as discipline , the captain 's ensured their profits by cutting off slave 's ears as proof of purchase .	most slave ship captains were paid for each slave they started the journey with , regardless of whether they survived the journey to the americas or not . for this reason , most captains were `` _____ packers , '' cramming as many people on board as possible if a slave died on board , or showed signs of illness , they would be tossed overboard . ______ were used as 'proof of purchase . '	most slave ship captains were paid for each slave they started the journey with , regardless of whether they survived the journey to the americas or not . for this reason , most captains were `` _____ packers , '' cramming as many people on board as possible if a slave died on board , or showed signs of illness , they would be tossed overboard . ______ were used as 'proof of purchase . '
one of their roles is to protect the fundamental rights of all americans , even as different parties take power . with the tremendous impact of this responsibility , it 's no wonder that a us supreme court justice is expected to be , in the words of irving r. kaufman , `` a paragon of virtue , an intellectual titan , and an administrative wizard . '' of course , not every member of the court turns out to be an exemplar of justice .	what us supreme court justice today , if any , would you describe as a paragon of virtue , an intellectual titan , and an administrative wizard ?	what us supreme court justice today , if any , would you describe as a paragon of virtue , an intellectual titan , and an administrative wizard ?
if you gradually increase the speed of the quality repetitons , you have a better chance of doing them correctly . next , frequent repetitions with allotted breaks are common practice habits of elite performers . studies have shown that many top athletes , musicians , and dancers spend 50-60 hours per week on activities related to their craft .	what are some typical practice habits of successful athletes and performers ?	what are some typical practice habits of successful athletes and performers ?
if you gradually increase the speed of the quality repetitons , you have a better chance of doing them correctly . next , frequent repetitions with allotted breaks are common practice habits of elite performers . studies have shown that many top athletes , musicians , and dancers spend 50-60 hours per week on activities related to their craft .	why is visual practice so important for experienced performers and athletes in continuing to develop their skills ?	why is visual practice so important for experienced performers and athletes in continuing to develop their skills ?
symmetry is everywhere in nature , and we usually associate it with beauty : a perfectly shaped leaf , or a butterfly with intricate patterns mirrored on each wing . but it turns out that asymmetry is pretty important , too , and more common than you might think , from crabs with one giant pincer claw to snail species whose shells ' always coil in the same direction .	can the cell be chiral in its structure and organization ?	can the cell be chiral in its structure and organization ?
our ego . human drivers care about minimizing their travel time and don ’ t give two honks about what other drivers want . driving slower may be faster for everyone else , but it ’ s not faster for me !	the biggest difference between human drivers and ant `` drivers '' is that , ants prioritize the good of the colony and human drivers are more concerned with ...	the biggest difference between human drivers and ant `` drivers '' is that , ants prioritize the good of the colony and human drivers are more concerned with ...
elvish does . in english , to make a verb past , you add an `` -ed . '' wash , washed .	making a present tense verb into a past one , as in walk and walked , is using	making a present tense verb into a past one , as in walk and walked , is using
light is basically a tiny electromagnetic wave traveling through space . the top of a wave is called its crest and the distance between two crests is called the wavelength . the crests in red light are about 700 billionths of a meter apart and the wavelength of purple light is even shorter , about 400 billionths of a meter , or 400 nanometers .	the distance between two crests in a wave is called the :	the distance between two crests in a wave is called the :
language is complex , and when abstract or nuanced concepts get lost in translation , the consequences may be catastrophic . as margaret atwood famously noted , `` war is what happens when language fails . '' conference interpreters of all people are aware of that and work diligently behind the scenes to make sure it never does .	according to canadian writer margaret atwood “ war is what happens when language fails. ” discuss .	according to canadian writer margaret atwood “ war is what happens when language fails. ” discuss .
specialized artisans supplied their gondola-making colleagues with elaborate covered passenger compartments , upholstery and ornaments of steel and brass . oar makers became integral partners to the gondola makers . the venetian oarlock , or fórcola , began as a simple wooden fork , but evolved into a high-precision tool that allowed a gondolier to guide the oar into many positions .	why do you think that gondoliers and gondola makers appear less frequently in historical documents than , let ’ s say , politicians or bankers ?	why do you think that gondoliers and gondola makers appear less frequently in historical documents than , let ’ s say , politicians or bankers ?
humans have observed comets for thousands of years as their orbits have brought them within visible distance of earth . appearing throughout historical records , these mysterious lights that came out of nowhere and disappeared after a short while were thought to be ill omens of war and famine , or the wrath of gods .	for thousands of years humans thought comets were omens of death . in the past 100 years more discoveries have been made than in all of history combined . out of everything there is to be learned , what percentage of knowledge do you think is left to be discovered and why ?	for thousands of years humans thought comets were omens of death . in the past 100 years more discoveries have been made than in all of history combined . out of everything there is to be learned , what percentage of knowledge do you think is left to be discovered and why ?
you know , there are more than 30 animal phyla , but only a handful of major ones had what it took to do something completely daring : step out of the ocean , and on to dry land . so , which of these land-dwelling phyla first invaded the land ? was it me and my mollusc friends , with our amazing mantles and single foot ?	other lesser-known animal phyla have also invaded land but for the most part remain tethered to moist habitats . who are these other phyla and what features have enabled them to make the leap ?	other lesser-known animal phyla have also invaded land but for the most part remain tethered to moist habitats . who are these other phyla and what features have enabled them to make the leap ?
you know , there are more than 30 animal phyla , but only a handful of major ones had what it took to do something completely daring : step out of the ocean , and on to dry land . so , which of these land-dwelling phyla first invaded the land ? was it me and my mollusc friends , with our amazing mantles and single foot ?	which of these major animal phyla invaded dry land first ?	which of these major animal phyla invaded dry land first ?
let 's start with the most famous physics formula ever : e equals m c squared . it basically says that mass is concentrated energy , and mass and energy are exchangeable , like two currencies with a huge exchange rate . 90 trillion joules of energy are equivalent to 1 gram of mass .	when two particles collide at very high energy , energy is transformed into :	when two particles collide at very high energy , energy is transformed into :
what do i have to show clearly , and how do i show it ? and , so , doing that on a legal pad , which is , i think , how i ended up sending it to you guys , taking a picture of myself on camera , really helped , you know , me understand the crucial , and that 's the crucial part of why chemotherapy actually works . so , it was a really interesting experience . ''	do you think drawing an explanation helps understand a topic ? explain .	do you think drawing an explanation helps understand a topic ? explain .
to answer , we first need to understand scalars . a scalar is a quantity with magnitude . it tells us how much of something there is .	give an example of a scalar that you have used in your everyday life . describe what makes it a scalar .	give an example of a scalar that you have used in your everyday life . describe what makes it a scalar .
there names were parentheses , exponents , multiplication , division , addition , and subtraction . but each was known best by his or her mark : the two hands ready to catch a fly of parentheses , the small and raised digits of exponents , the mighty x of multiplication , slash of division , plus of addition , and , well , you can guess the symbol by which little subtraction was best known . the land of pi was not necessarily the most peaceful place , and that 's why the numbers of the kingdom needed the musketeers .	solve this problem : ( 5-6 ) x 46 - 8^6 / 24	solve this problem : ( 5-6 ) x 46 - 8^6 / 24
there names were parentheses , exponents , multiplication , division , addition , and subtraction . but each was known best by his or her mark : the two hands ready to catch a fly of parentheses , the small and raised digits of exponents , the mighty x of multiplication , slash of division , plus of addition , and , well , you can guess the symbol by which little subtraction was best known . the land of pi was not necessarily the most peaceful place , and that 's why the numbers of the kingdom needed the musketeers .	around what other mathematical operations can you craft an imaginary world ? in two sentences , explain the world and how math will play a part .	around what other mathematical operations can you craft an imaginary world ? in two sentences , explain the world and how math will play a part .
berkelium which , i assume was named after the place of its discovery , which was berkeley and they made 3 billionths of a gram of it , which was just enough to record some spectroscopic data on it and prove that they had actually made it .	berkelium was named after…	berkelium was named after…
berkelium which , i assume was named after the place of its discovery , which was berkeley and they made 3 billionths of a gram of it , which was just enough to record some spectroscopic data on it and prove that they had actually made it .	who were the three people who synthesized berkelium in december 1949 for the first time ?	who were the three people who synthesized berkelium in december 1949 for the first time ?
berkelium which , i assume was named after the place of its discovery , which was berkeley and they made 3 billionths of a gram of it , which was just enough to record some spectroscopic data on it and prove that they had actually made it .	as steve explained , what amount of berkelium was enough for its discoverers to characterize it ?	as steve explained , what amount of berkelium was enough for its discoverers to characterize it ?
berkelium which , i assume was named after the place of its discovery , which was berkeley and they made 3 billionths of a gram of it , which was just enough to record some spectroscopic data on it and prove that they had actually made it .	berkelium was made the first time by bombarding 7 mg of pure americium-241 with helium . can you write the chemical equation for this reaction ?	berkelium was made the first time by bombarding 7 mg of pure americium-241 with helium . can you write the chemical equation for this reaction ?
when we see , it 's because the energy of light stimulates a receptor in our eye called the retina . our retina are only sensitive to light with a very small range in energy , and so we call that range of light visible light . inside our retina are special receptors called rods and cones .	which is not a form of light ?	which is not a form of light ?
when i became a larva , i moved among other drifters . [ `` plankton '' comes from the greek `` planktos '' for wandering ] my fellow plankton came in all sizes , from tiny algae and bacteria to animals longer than a blue whale . i shared my nursery with other embryos and juveniles , from clams and crabs to sea urchins and anemones .	the term “ plankton ” comes from the greek word planktos , which means	the term “ plankton ” comes from the greek word planktos , which means
now that you know all the hard work that went into securing the right to vote , what do you think ? do enough citizens have the right to vote now ? and among those who can vote , why do n't more of them do it ?	explain what major event happened in the fight for the right to vote in 1920 .	explain what major event happened in the fight for the right to vote in 1920 .
but these are n't just arbitrary magic numbers . rather , they represent the mathematical relationship between the pitch frequencies of different notes which form a geometric series . if we begin with the note a3 at 220 hertz , the series can be expressed with this equation , where `` n '' corresponds to successive notes on the keyboard .	which of the following is an example of a geometric series ?	which of the following is an example of a geometric series ?
but these are n't just arbitrary magic numbers . rather , they represent the mathematical relationship between the pitch frequencies of different notes which form a geometric series . if we begin with the note a3 at 220 hertz , the series can be expressed with this equation , where `` n '' corresponds to successive notes on the keyboard .	the frequency theories of ratios for consonance and dissonance do not always hold true . investigate the frequencies of notes that are 4 half-steps apart and make an 11:12 ratio . how does this produce a different outcome from the pattern in the video ?	the frequency theories of ratios for consonance and dissonance do not always hold true . investigate the frequencies of notes that are 4 half-steps apart and make an 11:12 ratio . how does this produce a different outcome from the pattern in the video ?
for a male , on the other hand , this is bad news . for him , it would be best if a female used his sperm to fertilize all of her eggs . so we see cycles of adaptation in an evolutionary arms race to retain control .	how can female dung flies decide which males will fertilize her eggs after she has mated with them ?	how can female dung flies decide which males will fertilize her eggs after she has mated with them ?
ah , it 's her younger brother , carlos . cotton-top tamarins often squeal during play wrestling . uh-oh .	cotton-top tamarins can communicate using ________ .	cotton-top tamarins can communicate using ________ .
ah , it 's her younger brother , carlos . cotton-top tamarins often squeal during play wrestling . uh-oh .	cotton-top tamarins can construct “ sentences ” ________ .	cotton-top tamarins can construct “ sentences ” ________ .
ah , it 's her younger brother , carlos . cotton-top tamarins often squeal during play wrestling . uh-oh .	when cotton-top tamarins encounter people in the forest , they would give :	when cotton-top tamarins encounter people in the forest , they would give :
ah , it 's her younger brother , carlos . cotton-top tamarins often squeal during play wrestling . uh-oh .	cotton-top tamarins are critically endangered . how can you help insure their survival ?	cotton-top tamarins are critically endangered . how can you help insure their survival ?
ah , it 's her younger brother , carlos . cotton-top tamarins often squeal during play wrestling . uh-oh .	cotton-top tamarins use vocalizations in a variety of contexts . can you describe a situation in which a cotton-top tamarin uses a vocalization to communicate information to another tamarin ?	cotton-top tamarins use vocalizations in a variety of contexts . can you describe a situation in which a cotton-top tamarin uses a vocalization to communicate information to another tamarin ?
ah , it 's her younger brother , carlos . cotton-top tamarins often squeal during play wrestling . uh-oh .	how do scientists determine the meaning of cotton-top tamarin vocalizations ?	how do scientists determine the meaning of cotton-top tamarin vocalizations ?
ah , it 's her younger brother , carlos . cotton-top tamarins often squeal during play wrestling . uh-oh .	do cotton-tops learn how to give vocalizations in the appropriate social context ? explain .	do cotton-tops learn how to give vocalizations in the appropriate social context ? explain .
gas clouds , now containing many elements besides the original hydrogen and helium , have higher density areas that attract more matter , and so on . as before , new stars result . our sun was born this way about 5 billion years ago .	stars form ________ .	stars form ________ .
this glove box here is a contraption full of nitrogen , it ’ s dry nitrogen so that we can keep our calcium away from oxygen and away from moisture as well , because obviously what we don ’ t want is when we get our nice very reactive calcium surface we don ’ t want it to tarnish from oxides too quickly before we can react it with things . so what we have here inside the bottle are turnings of calcium . calcium is quite hard compared to sort of the heavier group two elements , so strontium and barium , so it ’ s harder to file .	why does debbie manipulate calcium turnings inside a glove box full of nitrogen ?	why does debbie manipulate calcium turnings inside a glove box full of nitrogen ?
the first official to be impeached was tennesse senator william blount in 1797 for conspiring with britain to cease the spanish colony of louisiana . since then , the house has launched impeachment investigations about 60 times , but only 19 have led to actual impeachment proceedings . the eight cases that ended in a conviction and removal from office were all federal judges .	what does impeachment mean ?	what does impeachment mean ?
the first official to be impeached was tennesse senator william blount in 1797 for conspiring with britain to cease the spanish colony of louisiana . since then , the house has launched impeachment investigations about 60 times , but only 19 have led to actual impeachment proceedings . the eight cases that ended in a conviction and removal from office were all federal judges .	list the specific steps surrounding the impeachment process , beginning with suspicion of wrongdoing .	list the specific steps surrounding the impeachment process , beginning with suspicion of wrongdoing .
rather like the skins , of an onion . so that element 118 , represents the whole of a shell , being filled . so we know that there are no more electrons , that can be easily accommodated and if we make element 119 , which would be an alkali metal like sodium or cesium , then we would have to put a single electron , a lot further away , from the nucleus .	the properties of ununoctium are not known yet because only a few atoms have been synthesized . but the professor said , element 118 might be…	the properties of ununoctium are not known yet because only a few atoms have been synthesized . but the professor said , element 118 might be…
in her novel `` to the lighthouse , '' mundane moments , like a dinner party , or losing a necklace trigger psychological revelations in the lives of the ramsay 's , a fictionalized version of woolf 's family growing up . `` to the lighthouse '' also contains one of the most famous examples of woolf 's radical representation of time . in the time passes section , ten years are distilled into about 20 pages .	`` to the lighthouse '' experiments with time in order to :	`` to the lighthouse '' experiments with time in order to :
so it ’ s not actually that hard . i haven ’ t worked much with lanthanum but one of my students or a russian visitor did some rather interesting experiments with making a compound of lanthanum and copper , so-called lanthanum cuprate , which is quite an interesting catalyst . lanthanum ’ s got quite a few technological uses . it ’ s used in , of all things , lighting in hollywood studios .	regarding its reactivity , lanthanum is..	regarding its reactivity , lanthanum is..
stay in shaded areas , such as under trees or an umbrella , and avoid the sun at the peak hours of 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. and what 's the best kind of sunscreen ? everyone will have their preference , but look for the following things : broad spectra , spf of at least 30 , and water-resistant . a light moisturizer with spf 30 should be good for daily use . take note if you decide to use a spray .	spf is an abbreviation for :	spf is an abbreviation for :
this led to development of inventions like the head holder , a wire frame that would hide behind you while supporting your head . it 's also why you do n't see people smiling in early photographs . it 's not that life was that bad , it was just hard to keep a steady grin for more than a few seconds , so people opted for a straight-faced look .	why do n't people smile in early photographs ?	why do n't people smile in early photographs ?
and the world if full of creatures like the male anglerfish , which is so small and ill-suited for survival at birth that it has to quickly find a mate before it dies . but at least we can say that if an organism dies without reproducing , it 's evolutionarily useless , right ? wrong !	how can organisms that die without reproducing still propagate their genes ?	how can organisms that die without reproducing still propagate their genes ?
now , back to the mole . not that mole . this mole . yep , this number has a second name .	in what field of science do we most often use the mole ?	in what field of science do we most often use the mole ?
now , back to the mole . not that mole . this mole . yep , this number has a second name .	why do you think chemists prefer using the mole ? why do n't they just count each particle ?	why do you think chemists prefer using the mole ? why do n't they just count each particle ?
now , back to the mole . not that mole . this mole . yep , this number has a second name .	how big would a mole of basketballs be ?	how big would a mole of basketballs be ?
let 's take fiji , for example . fiji is series of islands in the south pacific ocean . to help balance the need for conservation and making a living , scientists had suggested that instead of one big park which provides a lot of coverage for one reef system while leaving the rest unprotected , a better way is to create a system of protected areas nested together like pearls on a string .	fiji is a series of islands in the south pacific islands . what best describes the way the coral reefs around the fiji islands are protected ?	fiji is a series of islands in the south pacific islands . what best describes the way the coral reefs around the fiji islands are protected ?
scientists are working on developing ways to defend against them , like using a nano-sponge that saves our cells by soaking up the membrane-damaging toxins . the fluid mosaic is what makes all the functions of life possible . without a cell membrane , there could be no cells , and without cells , there would be no bacteria , no parasites , no fungi , no animals , and no us .	in your own words , describe the fluid mosaic model . what makes it fluid ? what makes it a mosaic ?	in your own words , describe the fluid mosaic model . what makes it fluid ? what makes it a mosaic ?
or have you been bumped off a flight that you paid for ? these are all symptoms of overbooking , a practice where businesses and institutions sell or book more than their full capacity . while often infuriating for the customer , overbooking happens because it increases profits while also letting businesses optimize their resources . they know that not everyone will show up to their appointments , reservations , and flights , so they make more available than they actually have to offer .	think about other areas or businesses in which overbooking takes place .	think about other areas or businesses in which overbooking takes place .
the need to conserve resources is the reason most of the brain 's operations must happen outside of consciousness . it 's why multitasking is a fool 's errand . we simply lack the energy to do two things at once , let alone three or five .	why are attempts at multitasking inefficient ?	why are attempts at multitasking inefficient ?
once at a new site , the cells once again undergo proliferation , and form small tumors known as micrometastases . these small tumors then grow into full-fledged tumors , and complete the metastatic process . different cancers have been known to have specific sites of metastasis . for example , prostate cancer commonly metastasizes to the bone , while colon cancer metastasizes to the liver .	why are metastatic cancers so difficult to treat ?	why are metastatic cancers so difficult to treat ?
once at a new site , the cells once again undergo proliferation , and form small tumors known as micrometastases . these small tumors then grow into full-fledged tumors , and complete the metastatic process . different cancers have been known to have specific sites of metastasis . for example , prostate cancer commonly metastasizes to the bone , while colon cancer metastasizes to the liver .	what are some other ways that we can use to treat metastatic cancers ?	what are some other ways that we can use to treat metastatic cancers ?
as one of the largest man-made structures on earth , it was granted unesco world heritage status in 1987 . originally built to keep people out of china , the great wall now welcomes millions of visitors each year . in fact , the influx of tourists has caused the wall to deteriorate , leading the chinese government to launch preservation initiatives . it 's also often acclaimed as the only man-made structure visible from space .	why is the great wall one of the most well-known symbols of chinese culture and history ?	why is the great wall one of the most well-known symbols of chinese culture and history ?
however , one thing has not changed . the word poetry actually began in verb form , coming from the ancient greek poiesis , which means to create . poets , like craftsman , still work with the raw materials of the world to forge new understandings and comment on what it is to be human in a way only humans can .	the word poetry comes from the greek “ poiesis. ” what does this word mean ?	the word poetry comes from the greek “ poiesis. ” what does this word mean ?
what is love ? seriously , though , what is it ?	love can be identified as :	love can be identified as :
what is love ? seriously , though , what is it ?	one theory is that love is a subconscious means to :	one theory is that love is a subconscious means to :
what is love ? seriously , though , what is it ?	how would you explain the concept of love to a 2nd grader ?	how would you explain the concept of love to a 2nd grader ?
what is love ? seriously , though , what is it ?	without using the word “ feel ” or “ feelings ” , how could you define love ?	without using the word “ feel ” or “ feelings ” , how could you define love ?
in carbonated alcoholic beverages , like champagne and beer , sealed containers are used in primary or secondary fermentation to keep the carbon dioxide in the bottle . wine also introduces us to our second type of food-producing microorganism : bacteria . a special strain of bacteria turns a tart compound in grape juice into softer tasting ones that are responsible for some of the flavors in red wines and chardonnays .	why are the food types described in the video considered biotechnological applications ?	why are the food types described in the video considered biotechnological applications ?
that 's an example of the past perfect . or that they had been sailing for three weeks , something that was ongoing up until that point . in the present , they tell you that they still search for the creature today , their present simple activity .	in the sentence `` they had been sailing for three weeks when the attack happened , '' the verb `` to sail '' has which tense-aspect form ?	in the sentence `` they had been sailing for three weeks when the attack happened , '' the verb `` to sail '' has which tense-aspect form ?
then , the little remipede closes in , dissolving away the exoskeleton of its prey and sucking out the juices . but poisons and venoms are n't always all bad . for thousands of years , humans have looked for ways to harness the power of these toxic compounds for good .	why do you think poisons and venoms evolved ?	why do you think poisons and venoms evolved ?
it alerts them to our various emotional states , and it can even tell them when someone is pregnant or sick . because olfaction is more primal than other senses , bypassing the thalamus to connect directly to the brain structures involving emotion and instinct , we might even say a dog 's perception is more immediate and visceral than ours . but the most amazing thing about your dog 's nose is that it can traverse time .	olfaction bypasses the thalamus and goes directly to the brain , making the dog 's senses _____	olfaction bypasses the thalamus and goes directly to the brain , making the dog 's senses _____
so element 96 was curium which named after marie curie and pierre curie who were the discoverers of radium . because of its high levels of radioactivity curium can be used in thermoelectric generators to produce electricity and you ’ ll get about 120 watts per hour out of one of these . however , because it is so radioactive no-one ’ s really interested in using it in commercial processes .	what is the application of curium steve mentioned in the video ?	what is the application of curium steve mentioned in the video ?
so element 96 was curium which named after marie curie and pierre curie who were the discoverers of radium . because of its high levels of radioactivity curium can be used in thermoelectric generators to produce electricity and you ’ ll get about 120 watts per hour out of one of these . however , because it is so radioactive no-one ’ s really interested in using it in commercial processes .	which is curium ’ s preferred oxidation state ?	which is curium ’ s preferred oxidation state ?
it can be deadly . the body can even have an allergic reaction to itself causing auto-immune disorders , like multiple sclerosis , lupus , and type 1 diabetes . but even non-life threatening allergy symptoms can make you miserable , so what can you do about it ?	in severe cases , an allergic reaction can cause :	in severe cases , an allergic reaction can cause :
let 's begin our guided tour . welcome to the museum of museums . museums have been a part of human history for over 2000 years .	which museum required written permission to enter ?	which museum required written permission to enter ?
let 's begin our guided tour . welcome to the museum of museums . museums have been a part of human history for over 2000 years .	how were the greek museums similar to our current museums ? how were they different ?	how were the greek museums similar to our current museums ? how were they different ?
when frogs disappear , the food web is disturbed , and other animals can disappear as well . amphibians are also extremely important in human medicine . over ten percent of the nobel prizes in physiology and medicine have gone to researchers whose work depended on amphibians .	amphibians are rapidly disappearing around the world and up to ____ of all amphibians are threatened with extinction .	amphibians are rapidly disappearing around the world and up to ____ of all amphibians are threatened with extinction .
when frogs disappear , the food web is disturbed , and other animals can disappear as well . amphibians are also extremely important in human medicine . over ten percent of the nobel prizes in physiology and medicine have gone to researchers whose work depended on amphibians .	amphibians are under threat from which of the following factors ?	amphibians are under threat from which of the following factors ?
when frogs disappear , the food web is disturbed , and other animals can disappear as well . amphibians are also extremely important in human medicine . over ten percent of the nobel prizes in physiology and medicine have gone to researchers whose work depended on amphibians .	amphibians are important because _____ .	amphibians are important because _____ .
but depending on where you sit , it is hundreds of miles/hour relative to earth 's center . when we furrow a brow and ask , `` but how fast is earth really moving ? '' we imagine spaceship earth plowing through the ocean of space as it orbits the sun .	why have we grown so accustomed to saying that we ’ re “ at rest ” when , specifically , we ’ re not moving over earth ’ s surface ?	why have we grown so accustomed to saying that we ’ re “ at rest ” when , specifically , we ’ re not moving over earth ’ s surface ?
standing on something like a wax block can cut off this supply . franklin said that an object with an excess of this fluid was positively charged , and something lacking this fluid was negatively charged . when objects touch , or are near each other , the electrical fluid can flow between them until they reach a balance .	when benjamin franklin said an object was `` positively charged , '' he meant that it had ...	when benjamin franklin said an object was `` positively charged , '' he meant that it had ...
the same lack of insulin deprives cells of the energy-rich sugar they need to grow and function . people with diabetes also tend to have higher levels of glucagon , which makes even more sugar circulate . without this internal health coach , our sugar levels would go haywire , and we would n't be able to digest important nutrients .	what are the disadvantages caused by having diabetes ?	what are the disadvantages caused by having diabetes ?
and over the course of development , a legion of osteoblasts reinforce the skeleton that protects our organs , allows us to move , produces blood cells and more . but this initial building process alone is not enough to make bones strong and functional . if you took a bone built this way , attached muscles to it , and tried to use it to lift a heavy weight , the bone would probably snap under the strain .	in order for bones to be strong enough to carry weight , for instance , they need to experience _____ during their growth process .	in order for bones to be strong enough to carry weight , for instance , they need to experience _____ during their growth process .
not at all . as che said , the revolution is immortal . he was publicly mourned in cities all over the world .	where was che originally from ?	where was che originally from ?
not at all . as che said , the revolution is immortal . he was publicly mourned in cities all over the world .	where was che killed ?	where was che killed ?
the tokugawa military group , or bakufu , was fueled by confucian ideals and often enacted sanctions on costume fabrics , stage weaponry , and the subject matter of the plot . at the same time , kabuki became closely associated with and influenced by bunraku , an elaborate form of puppet theater . due to these influences , the once spontaneous , one-act dance evolved into a structured , five-act play often based on the tenets of confucian philosophy .	the onnagata were introduced into which form of kabuki ?	the onnagata were introduced into which form of kabuki ?
but in a race , fast does n't matter if you take a detour while someone else beelines it for the finish line . for exactly that reason , photons do n't win the supernova race to earth . neutrinos do . here 's why .	why do the neutrinos reach earth before the photons do ?	why do the neutrinos reach earth before the photons do ?
but a scientist must ask where the extra material is coming from . the law of conservation of mass implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed , which means that our hero 's mass will not change just because his size changes . for instance , when we bake a fluffy sponge cake , even though the resulting delicious treat is much bigger in size than the cake batter that went into the oven , the weight of the cake batter should still equal the weight of the cake plus the moisture that has evaporated .	the law of _____ implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed .	the law of _____ implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed .
but a scientist must ask where the extra material is coming from . the law of conservation of mass implies that mass can neither be created nor destroyed , which means that our hero 's mass will not change just because his size changes . for instance , when we bake a fluffy sponge cake , even though the resulting delicious treat is much bigger in size than the cake batter that went into the oven , the weight of the cake batter should still equal the weight of the cake plus the moisture that has evaporated .	please use three examples to explain galileo ’ s law of conservation of mass .	please use three examples to explain galileo ’ s law of conservation of mass .
fires are also important for the wider ecosystem as a whole . without wildfires to rejuvenate trees , key forest species would disappear , and so would the many creatures that depend on them . and if a fire-dependent forest goes too long without burning , that raises the risk of a catastrophic blaze , which could destroy a forest completely , not to mention people 's homes and lives . that 's why forest rangers sometimes intentionally start controlled burns to reduce fuels in order to keep the more dangerous wildfires at bay .	discuss why it is healthier for western forests to endure frequent but small wildfires rather than one immense catastrophic forest fire .	discuss why it is healthier for western forests to endure frequent but small wildfires rather than one immense catastrophic forest fire .
she said , `` i do n't think so , girlfriend . '' that confusion , mutual confusion , drove us to publish a paper on the conflicting ethics and the contradictory practices of research and reporting . we started with the understanding that researchers and reporters are distant cousins equally story tellers and social analysts . but we do n't see nor portray developing communities the same way .	according to dodson , how do the ethics and practices of reporters and researchers differ ?	according to dodson , how do the ethics and practices of reporters and researchers differ ?
the exact reason remains unclear , but experts suspect that social interaction gives our brain a mental workout . just like muscle strength , we have to use our brain or risk losing it . but do n't despair .	what are some of the healthy habits and techniques we can use to ensure we have a healthy brain , thus preserving our memory ?	what are some of the healthy habits and techniques we can use to ensure we have a healthy brain , thus preserving our memory ?
the word kabuki is derived from the japanese verb kabuku , meaning out of the ordinary or bizarre . its history began in early 17th century kyoto , where a shrine maiden named izumo no okuni would use the city 's dry kamo riverbed as a stage to perform unusual dances for passerby , who found her daring parodies of buddhist prayers both entertaining and mesmerizing . soon other troops began performing in the same style , and kabuki made history as japan 's first dramatic performance form catering to the common people .	the dry kamo riverbed , where izumo no okuni first danced , was located in which city ?	the dry kamo riverbed , where izumo no okuni first danced , was located in which city ?
so long as doctors are n't concerned there may also be a more severe brain injury , like a brain bleed , there 's no documented problem with going to sleep after a concussion . sometimes , victims of concussion can experience something called post-concussion syndrome , or pcs . people with pcs may experience constant headaches , learning difficulties , and behavioral symptoms that even affect their personal relationships for months or years after the injury .	which of the following could be a concussion symptom ?	which of the following could be a concussion symptom ?
so long as doctors are n't concerned there may also be a more severe brain injury , like a brain bleed , there 's no documented problem with going to sleep after a concussion . sometimes , victims of concussion can experience something called post-concussion syndrome , or pcs . people with pcs may experience constant headaches , learning difficulties , and behavioral symptoms that even affect their personal relationships for months or years after the injury .	what are some symptoms of pcs ( post-concussion syndrome ) and what makes it more likely to develop it ?	what are some symptoms of pcs ( post-concussion syndrome ) and what makes it more likely to develop it ?
so , the apocalypse has happened . the zombies have come and gone , and all plant life on earth has died somehow .	which of the choices below are not requirements for sprouting ?	which of the choices below are not requirements for sprouting ?
you can see the kinship in their skeletons . certain dinosaurs share some anatomical details with birds found in no other animals , such as wish bones . and in the late 1990s , paleontologists started digging up some compelling support for that idea : dinosaurs with bits of feathers still preserved on their bodies .	what 's an anatomical detail that some dinosaurs share with birds ( that no other animal does ) ?	what 's an anatomical detail that some dinosaurs share with birds ( that no other animal does ) ?
if you had told me back then that one-third of earth 's population had never seen snow or that july 4th was most definitely not a beach day , i would have thought you were crazy . but in reality , seasonal change with four distinct seasons only happens in two regions on the planet . and , even in those two , the seasons are reversed .	seasonal change is a result of :	seasonal change is a result of :
but what if your posture is n't that great ? try redesigning your environment . adjust your screen so it 's at or slightly below eyelevel .	which types of exercises might be performed in office environment that may help one ’ s posture ?	which types of exercises might be performed in office environment that may help one ’ s posture ?
the electronics of the future could be built to use this perfectly efficient electron highway . the topological properties of subatomic particles could also transform quantum computing . quantum computers take advantage of the fact that subatomic particles can be in different states at the same time to store information in something called qubits .	topological qubit is superb for quantum computing , not because it is ____ .	topological qubit is superb for quantum computing , not because it is ____ .
but the discovery went uncelebrated for several decades . the first practical application was in sonar instruments used to detect german submarines during world war i. piezoelectric quartz crystals in the sonar 's transmitter vibrated when they were subjected to alternating voltage . that sent ultrasound waves through the water .	many of us know about the tragedy of the titanic in april of 1912. the sonar technology with piezoelectric quartz crystals was first deployed to detect german submarines during world war i. if only this technology had been available a few years earlier , do you think it could have maybe saved the titanic from the deadly iceberg ?	many of us know about the tragedy of the titanic in april of 1912. the sonar technology with piezoelectric quartz crystals was first deployed to detect german submarines during world war i. if only this technology had been available a few years earlier , do you think it could have maybe saved the titanic from the deadly iceberg ?
in one study , a group of women at different points in their ovulation cycles wore the same t-shirts for three nights . after male volunteers were randomly assigned to smell either one of the worn shirts , or a new unworn one , saliva samples showed an increase in testosterone in those who had smelled a shirt worn by an ovulating woman . such a testosterone boost may give a man the nudge to pursue a woman he might not have otherwise noticed .	sometimes , a man ’ s testosterone increases when her smells a shirt worn my a _________women ?	sometimes , a man ’ s testosterone increases when her smells a shirt worn my a _________women ?
if you 're wondering why our planet does n't seem to be glowing , it 's because the earth does n't emit visible light . it emits infared light . the light that our eyes can see , including all of the colors of the rainbow , is just a small part of the larger spectrum of electromagnetic radiation , which includes radio waves , microwaves , infrared , ultraviolet , x-rays , and gamma rays .	the earth emits ________ light .	the earth emits ________ light .
in her novel `` the waves , '' there is little distinction between the narratives of the six main characters . woolf experiments with collective consciousness , at times collapsing the six voices into one . `` it is not one life that i look back upon : i am not one person : i am many people : i do not altogether know who i am , jinny , susan , neville , rhoda or louis , or how to distinguish my life from their 's . ''	woolf ’ s use of collective consciousness in `` the waves '' :	woolf ’ s use of collective consciousness in `` the waves '' :
so if i stand and hold it for long enough , in theory , the temperature should come from my hand , the heat should come from my hand , so it should melt the gallium and then eventually we should have a small amount of liquid . so gallium , you can form an amalgam with this material , with all sorts of different materials like indium and tin . and in fact indium , tin and gallium is used as the material inside many , many thermometers which are used in the medical industry because it is not as toxic as mercury which was traditionally used . you may have heard of mendeleev .	galinstan is an alloy of gallium , indium and tin . why is it used instead of mercury to make clinical thermometers ?	galinstan is an alloy of gallium , indium and tin . why is it used instead of mercury to make clinical thermometers ?
there are many other reactions we can model with this small set of atoms , and the law of conservation of mass always holds true . whatever matter and energy go into a chemical reaction are present and accounted for when it 's complete . so if mass ca n't be created or destroyed , where did these atoms come from in the first place ?	where is the energy added to a chemical reaction stored ?	where is the energy added to a chemical reaction stored ?
however somewhat terrifyingly a strain of panama disease that affects the cavendish strain that we all eat has been identified . a global monoculture of genetically identical individuals is a beautiful sight to a pathogen . the fungus only has to figure out how to infect and destroy a single individual , and suddenly there is no diversity to stop it , or even slow it down .	6 . `` a global monoculture of genetically identical fruit ( like banana ) is a beautiful sight to a pathogen . '' explain why .	6 . `` a global monoculture of genetically identical fruit ( like banana ) is a beautiful sight to a pathogen . '' explain why .
the second thing that they found out is that losers change brady : to anything in particular , or ... ? dr. fry : well , so this is a thing that you can exploit , essentially so if you know -- so this gives us , i suppose , two strategies that we can use so the first tip is that if you lose , that means the other person just won , right ? so let 's imagine that your opponent won by playing rock now , the chances are that they 're going to play rock again , you should then play paper so you just lost on scissors , so you should play paper which means that , basically , even though paper beats rock ( so the cycle goes around like this : paper beats rock and so on ) you should go the other way around the triangle let 's imagine that you played scissors , the other person played rock , what you should do is you should go backwards around this triangle and play paper the next time because of the high chance that they 're going to play rock again so that 's the first thing : go backwards , i guess or another way to say it is -- essentially , you 've just played scissors , they 've played rock so play the thing that did n't come up in that , if you lose now the second thing , is that if you 've just won now , they 're going to expect you to play the same thing again , right ?	what should you do if you tie the first hand ?	what should you do if you tie the first hand ?
they ’ re no longer needed . but there ’ s another , less practical influence behind cartoon characters ’ white gloves . the opry house is a film about mickey putting on a big vaudeville show . that film and many of the animations that predated it were inextricably linked to vaudeville performance and the blackface minstrel shows of the time .	what were the similarities between cartoon characters and the vaudeville / minstrel show characters that they emulated ?	what were the similarities between cartoon characters and the vaudeville / minstrel show characters that they emulated ?
these consist of artificial nodes that mimic our biological neurons by forming connections and exchanging information . to train the network , sample inputs pre-classified into different categories , such as photos marked happy or sad , are fed into the system . the network then learns to classify those samples by adjusting the relative weights assigned to particular features . the more training data it 's given , the better the algorithm becomes at correctly identifying new images .	assume that you ’ ve trained a neural network to predict the weather . at some point , following a meteorite crash , europe is covered by clouds of smoke ; is your neural network able to adapt to the new situation ?	assume that you ’ ve trained a neural network to predict the weather . at some point , following a meteorite crash , europe is covered by clouds of smoke ; is your neural network able to adapt to the new situation ?
three : take time to understand as you try to be understood . in the rush to express ourselves , it 's easy to forget that communication is a two-way street . be open to what the other person might say .	communication is a two-way process , in which we work to understand ideas together . how does feedback affect this process ?	communication is a two-way process , in which we work to understand ideas together . how does feedback affect this process ?
in the 1920s , astronomers studying the nebuli wanted to figure out how they were moving . based on the doppler effect , they expected to see blue shift for objects moving toward us , and red shift for ones moving away . but all they saw was a red shift .	which of the following is not true about the doppler effect ?	which of the following is not true about the doppler effect ?
eggs are mostly made of water and proteins . the proteins start off folded up into intricate shapes , held together by weak chemical bonds . adding heat disrupts those bonds , allowing the proteins to unfold , uncoil , unwind and wiggle freely .	a folded protein is held in place by _____	a folded protein is held in place by _____
but the western empire would never be united again . its dominions fragmented into kingdoms ruled by goths and other germanic tribes who assimilated into local cultures , though many of their names still mark the map . this was the end of the classical period and the beginning of what many call the dark ages .	what similarities do you see between the romans ’ attitude towards the germanic tribes and the way contemporary goths are portrayed in film and television ?	what similarities do you see between the romans ’ attitude towards the germanic tribes and the way contemporary goths are portrayed in film and television ?
another tricky thing about immortality : human beings have not always looked the same . this can be explained by darwin 's theory of evolution . for instance , if women find taller men more attractive , then more tall men would mate and have children , putting more tall genes in the gene pool .	which scientist is associated with the theory of evolution ?	which scientist is associated with the theory of evolution ?
so those options are all out . sending two lions , or one of each animal , can actually both lead to solutions in the same number of moves . for the sake of time , we 'll focus on the second one .	which animal ( s ) can go across first ( for the first crossing ) to make the most efficient number of moves ?	which animal ( s ) can go across first ( for the first crossing ) to make the most efficient number of moves ?
nevertheless , as soon as harry and his brother ken were old enough to work , they returned to the country they considered home , settling near los angeles . but then , december 7 , 1941 , the attack on pearl harbor . now at war with japan , the united states government did not trust the loyalty of those citizens who had family or ancestral ties to the enemy country .	after japan attacked the united states military base at pearl harbor , hawaii , on december 7 , 1941 , what did the u.s. government do to japanese-american citizens living on the west coast of the united states ?	after japan attacked the united states military base at pearl harbor , hawaii , on december 7 , 1941 , what did the u.s. government do to japanese-american citizens living on the west coast of the united states ?
not the things themselves , mind you , but what they 're made of : the atoms that are the fabric of all things . to answer that question , we look to the law of conservation of mass . this law says take an isolated system defined by a boundary that matter and energy can not cross .	the law of conservation of mass says that mass can neither be _____ nor _____	the law of conservation of mass says that mass can neither be _____ nor _____
not the things themselves , mind you , but what they 're made of : the atoms that are the fabric of all things . to answer that question , we look to the law of conservation of mass . this law says take an isolated system defined by a boundary that matter and energy can not cross .	why is it important to balance a chemical equation ? use the following terms in your answer : reactants , products , coefficients , atoms ( or molecules ) , and law of conservation of mass .	why is it important to balance a chemical equation ? use the following terms in your answer : reactants , products , coefficients , atoms ( or molecules ) , and law of conservation of mass .
not the things themselves , mind you , but what they 're made of : the atoms that are the fabric of all things . to answer that question , we look to the law of conservation of mass . this law says take an isolated system defined by a boundary that matter and energy can not cross .	why is it difficult to prove the law of conservation of mass when a gas is produced ?	why is it difficult to prove the law of conservation of mass when a gas is produced ?
welcome to synesthesia , the neurological phenomenon that couples two or more senses in 4 % of the population . a synesthete might not only hear my voice , but also see it , taste it , or feel it as a physical touch . sharing the same root with anesthesia , meaning no sensation , synesthesia means joined sensation .	why might a synesthete be advantaged ?	why might a synesthete be advantaged ?
well , today that concept is a reality . the concept that occurred to malcolm is known as containerization . it has done more than just save a great deal of time .	what is containerization ?	what is containerization ?
it 's too small to see ! ok. let 's blow up the atom -- the blueberry -- to the size of a house . so imagine a ball that is as tall as a two-story house .	describe the size and scale of an atom . explain the relative size of the nucleus in relation to the size of the entire atom .	describe the size and scale of an atom . explain the relative size of the nucleus in relation to the size of the entire atom .
those are usually caused when the fruit is attacked by microbes after it 's detached from the plant . if the plant is wounded during transport , necrotic fungi can infiltrate through the wound , kill the cells , absorb their nutrients , and leave your food looking mushy or brown . those spots in particular can taste pretty bad .	food waste is a problem because it :	food waste is a problem because it :
as both predator and prey , survival of their species depended on crucial instinctual behaviors which we still observe in wild and domestic cats today . while the feline actions of your house cat grizmo might seem perplexing , in the wild , these same behaviors , naturally bred into cats for millions of years , would make grizmo a super cat . enabled by their unique muscular structure and keen balancing abilities , cats climbed to high vantage points to survey their territory and spot prey in the wild .	the best way to understand cat behaviour is :	the best way to understand cat behaviour is :
finally , countries in advanced stages of industrialization reach a point where both birth and death rates are low , and the population remains stable or even begins to decline . now , let 's take a look at the projected population pyramids for the same three countries in 2050 . what do these tell us about the expected changes in each country 's population , and what kinds of factors can alter the shape of these future pyramids ? a population pyramid can be useful not only as a predictor of a country 's future but as a record of its past .	what factors might account for differences in population pyramids between cities within the same country ?	what factors might account for differences in population pyramids between cities within the same country ?
it ’ s happened to lots of us . acne , or acne vulgaris , is the most common skin disease in humans . it affects about 80 % of people at some point in their lives .	what percentage of humans are affected by acne at some point in their lives ?	what percentage of humans are affected by acne at some point in their lives ?
translator : tom carter reviewer : bedirhan cinar ( circus music ) [ ted n ' ed 's carnival ] [ john lloyd 's inventory of the invisible ] [ adapted from a tedtalk given by john lloyd in 2009 ] june cohen : our next speaker has spent his whole career eliciting that sense of wonder . please welcome john lloyd . ( applause ) [ hall of mirrors ] the question is , `` what is invisible ? ''	what term does lloyd use to define his religious convictions ?	what term does lloyd use to define his religious convictions ?
after all , aristotle 's ideas made sense with what they could see , and they were pretty flattering to humans . but a series of subsequent discoveries made the sun-centric model hard to ignore . first , johannes kepler pointed out that orbits are n't perfect circles or spheres .	from the video , identify three scientific contributions that led to the broader adoption of the sun-centered model of the solar system . explain why these contributions were important factors in supporting a sun-centered model .	from the video , identify three scientific contributions that led to the broader adoption of the sun-centered model of the solar system . explain why these contributions were important factors in supporting a sun-centered model .
after all , aristotle 's ideas made sense with what they could see , and they were pretty flattering to humans . but a series of subsequent discoveries made the sun-centric model hard to ignore . first , johannes kepler pointed out that orbits are n't perfect circles or spheres .	all of the following scientific work contributed to the adoption of a sun-centered understanding of the solar system , except for one . which of the following did not factor into adopting a sun-centered model ?	all of the following scientific work contributed to the adoption of a sun-centered understanding of the solar system , except for one . which of the following did not factor into adopting a sun-centered model ?
however , this evidence does not account for how the continents moved apart . for that , we 'll need to take a close look at the earth below our feet . though you may not realize it , the ground below you is traveling across the earth at a rate of about 10 cm/year , or the speed at which your fingernails grow . this is due to plate tectonics , or the large-scale movement of earth 's continents .	the ground below your feet moves at the rate at which ______ .	the ground below your feet moves at the rate at which ______ .
among the great poets of literary history , certain names like homer , shakespeare , milton , and whitman are instantly recognizable . however , there 's an early 20th century great french poet whose name you may not know : guillaume apollinaire . he was a close friend and collaborator of artists like picasso , rousseau , and chagall .	guillaume apollinaire was both a poet and a ( n ) :	guillaume apollinaire was both a poet and a ( n ) :
among the great poets of literary history , certain names like homer , shakespeare , milton , and whitman are instantly recognizable . however , there 's an early 20th century great french poet whose name you may not know : guillaume apollinaire . he was a close friend and collaborator of artists like picasso , rousseau , and chagall .	guillaume apollinaire was close to a young painter by the name of :	guillaume apollinaire was close to a young painter by the name of :
among the great poets of literary history , certain names like homer , shakespeare , milton , and whitman are instantly recognizable . however , there 's an early 20th century great french poet whose name you may not know : guillaume apollinaire . he was a close friend and collaborator of artists like picasso , rousseau , and chagall .	guillaume apollinaire wanted to push the “ quest of another reality. ” this is not defined by science and reason , so he created a new word :	guillaume apollinaire wanted to push the “ quest of another reality. ” this is not defined by science and reason , so he created a new word :
among the great poets of literary history , certain names like homer , shakespeare , milton , and whitman are instantly recognizable . however , there 's an early 20th century great french poet whose name you may not know : guillaume apollinaire . he was a close friend and collaborator of artists like picasso , rousseau , and chagall .	how could you explain “ avant-garde ” in france during the early 20th century ?	how could you explain “ avant-garde ” in france during the early 20th century ?
but if you 're a serious chemist you really need to say aluminium , because otherwise people wo n't find your papers , your publications , when they search because they 'll almost certainly put an `` i '' ' in the name . aluminium is frequently used or used [ to be ] frequently used kkfor sauce pans , for cooking in because it 's easy to make , easy to machine and particularly when people used electric stoves it was easy to make a flat bottom so that you got good contact between the electric element and the sauce pan . the problem with aluminium sauce pans is that if you 're cooking some fairly acidic food , for example boiling lemons or rhubarb something like that which is quite acidic you can dissolve some of the aluminium and people got quite worried about getting aluminium in their food .	the thermite reaction is an extremely exothermic red-ox reaction , where aluminium with iron oxide is used as the reducing agent . it is still used to weld rail tracks on-site or to obtain chromium metal from chromium ( iii ) oxide . can you write the reactions involved in both processes ?	the thermite reaction is an extremely exothermic red-ox reaction , where aluminium with iron oxide is used as the reducing agent . it is still used to weld rail tracks on-site or to obtain chromium metal from chromium ( iii ) oxide . can you write the reactions involved in both processes ?
crowds count . these are the six main sources of power , what power is . so now , let 's think about how power operates .	one of the six sources of power is social norms . choose the description that best describes this form of power .	one of the six sources of power is social norms . choose the description that best describes this form of power .
and that seems to be true around the world . another study examined the generosity of over 200,000 people from 136 countries . in over 90 % of these countries , people who donated tended to be happier than those who did n't .	generosity has a way of making both the donor and receiver happy . explain .	generosity has a way of making both the donor and receiver happy . explain .
approximately 7 million people around the world die from heart attacks every year , and cardiovascular disease , which causes heart attacks and other problems like strokes , is the world 's leading killer . so what causes a heart attack ?	how many deaths occur annually around the world from cardiovascular disease ?	how many deaths occur annually around the world from cardiovascular disease ?
first of all , here 's what we actually see on the fossil : imprints of bones and feathers that have left telltale mineral deposits . and from those imprints , we can determine that these microraptor feathers were similar to modern dinosaur , as in bird , feathers . but what gives birds their signature diverse colorations ?	microraptor 's melanosomes most closely resemble those of which modern-day bird species ?	microraptor 's melanosomes most closely resemble those of which modern-day bird species ?
first of all , here 's what we actually see on the fossil : imprints of bones and feathers that have left telltale mineral deposits . and from those imprints , we can determine that these microraptor feathers were similar to modern dinosaur , as in bird , feathers . but what gives birds their signature diverse colorations ?	what are some ways that microraptor is different from modern birds ? how are they similar to modern birds ?	what are some ways that microraptor is different from modern birds ? how are they similar to modern birds ?
we can take what exists and apply past examples within our own unique context - today 's perspective on tap dance . it all really boils down to two pieces of metal on a leather-soled shoe , the wood to dance on , an audience to watch and listen , and something to say . it 's the balancing of these elements that is a tap dancer 's craft work .	`` it all really boils down to two pieces of metal on the bottom of leather soled shoes , the wood to dance on , an audience to watch and listen , and something to say . '' what does andrew nemr mean by this ?	`` it all really boils down to two pieces of metal on the bottom of leather soled shoes , the wood to dance on , an audience to watch and listen , and something to say . '' what does andrew nemr mean by this ?
instead , the universe consisted of a swirling sea of subatomic matter . a few seconds after the big bang , it was hotter still , hot enough to overpower the forces that usually hold protons and neutrons together in atomic nuclei . further back , microseconds after the big bang , and the protons and neutrons were only just beginning to form from quarks , one of the fundamental building blocks of the standard model of particle physics . further back still , and the energy was too great even for the quarks to stick together .	how long after the big bang was it before protons and neutrons could form from quarks ?	how long after the big bang was it before protons and neutrons could form from quarks ?
instead , the universe consisted of a swirling sea of subatomic matter . a few seconds after the big bang , it was hotter still , hot enough to overpower the forces that usually hold protons and neutrons together in atomic nuclei . further back , microseconds after the big bang , and the protons and neutrons were only just beginning to form from quarks , one of the fundamental building blocks of the standard model of particle physics . further back still , and the energy was too great even for the quarks to stick together .	how do we know that all of the fundamental forces of nature will simplify into one force at a very high energy ?	how do we know that all of the fundamental forces of nature will simplify into one force at a very high energy ?
for most other substances , the solid state is more dense than the liquid state , but that is not the case for water ! hydrogen bonds keep water molecules farther apart in frozen water than in liquid water . the farther apart the molecules are , the less dense that solid is .	table salt ( nacl ) is an ionic compound . as with other ionic compounds , nacl dissolves in water . when placed in water , na and cl form ions . na has a positive charge and cl has a negative charge . describe how water molecules interact with these ions .	table salt ( nacl ) is an ionic compound . as with other ionic compounds , nacl dissolves in water . when placed in water , na and cl form ions . na has a positive charge and cl has a negative charge . describe how water molecules interact with these ions .
for most other substances , the solid state is more dense than the liquid state , but that is not the case for water ! hydrogen bonds keep water molecules farther apart in frozen water than in liquid water . the farther apart the molecules are , the less dense that solid is .	as we know , a plant ’ s roots absorb water . however , water is needed by all parts of the plant . based on what we learned about the polarity of water , explain how water is transported through tiny tubes from the roots to the leaves within a plant . ( video hint : think about how blood moves around the body . )	as we know , a plant ’ s roots absorb water . however , water is needed by all parts of the plant . based on what we learned about the polarity of water , explain how water is transported through tiny tubes from the roots to the leaves within a plant . ( video hint : think about how blood moves around the body . )
for most other substances , the solid state is more dense than the liquid state , but that is not the case for water ! hydrogen bonds keep water molecules farther apart in frozen water than in liquid water . the farther apart the molecules are , the less dense that solid is .	if you drop a metal paperclip into a cup of water , it will sink to the bottom . however , with practice , you can gently place a metal paperclip on the surface of the water and it will balance or appear to float . explain why this happens .	if you drop a metal paperclip into a cup of water , it will sink to the bottom . however , with practice , you can gently place a metal paperclip on the surface of the water and it will balance or appear to float . explain why this happens .
for most other substances , the solid state is more dense than the liquid state , but that is not the case for water ! hydrogen bonds keep water molecules farther apart in frozen water than in liquid water . the farther apart the molecules are , the less dense that solid is .	which of the statements below correctly describes the partial charges on the atoms in a water molecule ?	which of the statements below correctly describes the partial charges on the atoms in a water molecule ?
for most other substances , the solid state is more dense than the liquid state , but that is not the case for water ! hydrogen bonds keep water molecules farther apart in frozen water than in liquid water . the farther apart the molecules are , the less dense that solid is .	what type of bonds exists between neighboring water molecules ?	what type of bonds exists between neighboring water molecules ?
for most other substances , the solid state is more dense than the liquid state , but that is not the case for water ! hydrogen bonds keep water molecules farther apart in frozen water than in liquid water . the farther apart the molecules are , the less dense that solid is .	what happens to the amount of hydrogen bonding between water molecules as water is heated up ?	what happens to the amount of hydrogen bonding between water molecules as water is heated up ?
the experiment is simple : you take a rat and put it in a cage with two water bottles . one is just water , the other is water laced with heroin or cocaine . almost every time you run this experiment , the rat will become obsessed with the drugged water and keep coming back for more and more , until it kills itself .	what were the results of putting the drug-laced water bottle in `` rat park '' ?	what were the results of putting the drug-laced water bottle in `` rat park '' ?
for starters , fear can actually feel pretty good . when a threat triggers our fight or flight response , our bodies prepare for danger by releasing chemicals that change how our brains and bodies function . this automatic response jumpstarts systems that can aid in survival . they do this by making sure we have enough energy and are protected from feeling pain , while shutting down nonessential systems , like critical thought .	our automatic nervous system is responsible for activating the fight or flight response .	our automatic nervous system is responsible for activating the fight or flight response .
those forces include surface tension and capillary action , the phenomena that govern other small things . micropropulsion systems can harness these forces to power spacecraft . one example of how this might work is called microfluidic electrospray propulsion .	current large spacecraft are powered with chemical rocket engines . what are some issues with scaling down the size of these systems to power micro-spacecraft ?	current large spacecraft are powered with chemical rocket engines . what are some issues with scaling down the size of these systems to power micro-spacecraft ?
if you 've heard it before , it 's almost impossible after i sing , `` mahna mahna , '' not to respond , `` do doo do do do . '' repetition connects each bit of music irresistibly to the next bit of music that follows it . so when you hear a few notes , you 're already imagining what 's coming next .	compare the effects of repetition in music and language .	compare the effects of repetition in music and language .
if you 've heard it before , it 's almost impossible after i sing , `` mahna mahna , '' not to respond , `` do doo do do do . '' repetition connects each bit of music irresistibly to the next bit of music that follows it . so when you hear a few notes , you 're already imagining what 's coming next .	what can repetition illuminate about the difference between music and language ?	what can repetition illuminate about the difference between music and language ?
if you 've heard it before , it 's almost impossible after i sing , `` mahna mahna , '' not to respond , `` do doo do do do . '' repetition connects each bit of music irresistibly to the next bit of music that follows it . so when you hear a few notes , you 're already imagining what 's coming next .	when repetition was added to excerpts from challenging contemporary art music :	when repetition was added to excerpts from challenging contemporary art music :
she 's the mysterious subject of dutch master johannes vermeer 's `` girl with the pearl earring , '' a painting often referred to as the 'mona lisa of the north . ' belonging to a dutch style of idealized , sometimes overly expressive paintings known as tronies , the `` girl with the pearl earring '' has the allure and subtlety characteristic of vermeer 's work . but this painting stands apart from the quiet narrative scenes that we observe from afar in many of vermeer 's paintings .	how does the `` girl with the pearl earring '' differ from much of vermeer ’ s other work ?	how does the `` girl with the pearl earring '' differ from much of vermeer ’ s other work ?
this process is known as antigenic shift and has occurred throughout human history . the first recorded pandemic occurred in 1580 . the 18th and 19th centuries saw at least six further pandemics .	what ’ s the difference between a pandemic and an epidemic ?	what ’ s the difference between a pandemic and an epidemic ?
these are chopped up and tested and the ones that worked are put into computers and the ones that are no good are just chucked and so this is a fantastically delicate piece of engineering making these . this is so-called 20cm wafer . they now make silicon chips on a 30cm wafer which is about this size and you can get a large number more on them .	where can you find one of the amazing 20cm silicon monocrystal wafers that the professor showed us ?	where can you find one of the amazing 20cm silicon monocrystal wafers that the professor showed us ?
like most everyone at the site , i was a math major , as you may expect , we 're known for the analytic approach we take to love . we call it our matching algorithm . basically , okcupid 's matching algorithm helps us decide whether two people should go on a date .	what is an algorithm ?	what is an algorithm ?
this special design transforms them into pressurized tubes whose springy skin can efficiently transmit muscular forces to the tail . shark skin has additional remarkable features . despite its smooth external appearance , at the micro level , it has a coarse texture thanks to thousands of tiny teeth-like scales called dermal denticles .	describe each of the shark tooth types , structures , and functions in a chart .	describe each of the shark tooth types , structures , and functions in a chart .
this special design transforms them into pressurized tubes whose springy skin can efficiently transmit muscular forces to the tail . shark skin has additional remarkable features . despite its smooth external appearance , at the micro level , it has a coarse texture thanks to thousands of tiny teeth-like scales called dermal denticles .	list some advantages the shark has due to the ability to maintain warmth .	list some advantages the shark has due to the ability to maintain warmth .
this special design transforms them into pressurized tubes whose springy skin can efficiently transmit muscular forces to the tail . shark skin has additional remarkable features . despite its smooth external appearance , at the micro level , it has a coarse texture thanks to thousands of tiny teeth-like scales called dermal denticles .	a shark ’ s skeleton is made from the same skeletal material in your :	a shark ’ s skeleton is made from the same skeletal material in your :
classic novels , like `` dracula , '' for example , are told through letters and diary entries where characters relate what they 've experienced and fear what 's to come . next , choose the right setting and imagery . old mansions or castles with winding halls and secret passageways suggest that disturbing things are being concealed .	think of a novel that successfully builds suspense , and consider the use of setting at key moments . does the setting of the story naturally lend itself to a feeling of tension ? is weather used to add an air of danger ? can you find examples of threatening imagery in the author ’ s description of the place ?	think of a novel that successfully builds suspense , and consider the use of setting at key moments . does the setting of the story naturally lend itself to a feeling of tension ? is weather used to add an air of danger ? can you find examples of threatening imagery in the author ’ s description of the place ?
when you breathe , you transport oxygen to the body 's cells to keep them working and clear your system of the carbon dioxide that this work generates . breathing , in other words , keeps the body alive . so , how do we accomplish this crucial and complex task without even thinking about it ?	how do you think your breathing and lungs adapt when you 're exercising ?	how do you think your breathing and lungs adapt when you 're exercising ?
it allows researchers to piece together details about ancient individuals and identify historical events that affected whole populations . when researchers uncover a skeleton , some of the first clues they gather , like age and gender , lie in its morphology , which is the structure , appearance , and size of a skeleton . bones , like the clavicle , stop growing at age 25 , so a skeleton with a clavicle that has n't fully formed must be younger than that .	precise gender assessment of a human skeleton is possible based on studying :	precise gender assessment of a human skeleton is possible based on studying :
- so the other group of ants [ dr. corrie moreau , curator/ants ] that we have today are bullet ants . [ dr. corrie moreau , curator/ants ] - why are they called bullet ants ? [ bullet ant , paraponera clavata ] - well , they 're called bullet ants [ bullet ant , paraponera clavata ] because their sting is so painful [ * causing excruciating pain , numbness & amp ; amp ; trembling ] it feels like you were shot by a gun . [ * causing excruciating pain , numbness & amp ; amp ; trembling ] - and you 've experienced this firsthand ?	why is this ant called the bullet ant ?	why is this ant called the bullet ant ?
the leftover hydrogen gas is then used as energy to generate electricity , so there 's an added bonus . a third technique exposes coal to pure oxygen , instead of burning it in air . this creates exhaust gas with higher concentrations of carbon dioxide , which makes it easy to isolate and to banish to the chasms below .	what features of coal and coal-burning make it responsible for such a large proportion of carbon dioxide emissions ?	what features of coal and coal-burning make it responsible for such a large proportion of carbon dioxide emissions ?
the extra carbon dioxide in the atmosphere accelerates the greenhouse effect by trapping more heat near the surface and causing polar ice caps to melt . and the more they melt , the less sunlight they 're able to reflect , making the oceans warm even faster . sea levels rise , coastal populations are threatened with flooding , natural ecosystems are disrupted , and the weather becomes more extreme over time .	melting ice causes earth to warm even further .	melting ice causes earth to warm even further .
one of the most remarkable aspects of the human brain is its ability to recognize patterns and describe them . among the hardest patterns we 've tried to understand is the concept of turbulent flow in fluid dynamics . the german physicist werner heisenberg said , `` when i meet god , i 'm going to ask him two questions : why relativity and why turbulence ?	who proposed statistical theory of turbulent patterns ?	who proposed statistical theory of turbulent patterns ?
so why , mr. president , am i addressing this letter to you ? well , you appoint the secretary of education , for one - and i do believe that high school physics is somewhat related to education . now , maybe your education secretary says , `` ancient physics is already hard to teach to high schoolers .	the creator of the video claims that physics education in america currently fails to address any of the developments in physics that were made after what year ?	the creator of the video claims that physics education in america currently fails to address any of the developments in physics that were made after what year ?
so why , mr. president , am i addressing this letter to you ? well , you appoint the secretary of education , for one - and i do believe that high school physics is somewhat related to education . now , maybe your education secretary says , `` ancient physics is already hard to teach to high schoolers .	excluding the `` correct '' answer in the last question , are any of the other three options mentioned valid reasons for `` post-1865 '' topics not to be included in high school physics curricula ? pick one of the other three options and explain why it is valid or why it is not . or , if you can think of your own reason , feel free to state it and explain it instead .	excluding the `` correct '' answer in the last question , are any of the other three options mentioned valid reasons for `` post-1865 '' topics not to be included in high school physics curricula ? pick one of the other three options and explain why it is valid or why it is not . or , if you can think of your own reason , feel free to state it and explain it instead .
but after he finds out that the murdered man was his father , and the queen he married is his mother , oedipus gouges out his eyes and retreats into the wilderness . at the beginning of his story , oedipus is elevated in ability , and he 's elevated in rank . he 's neither unusually evil nor saintly .	how is oedipus elevated in rank and ability ? what characteristic makes him relatable ?	how is oedipus elevated in rank and ability ? what characteristic makes him relatable ?
matrices really are everywhere , though . they are used in business , economics , cryptography , physics , electronics , and computer graphics . one reason matrices are so cool is that we can pack so much information into them and then turn a huge series of different problems into one single problem .	matrices are used in all of the following fields : business , economics , cryptography , physics , electronics , and computer graphics .	matrices are used in all of the following fields : business , economics , cryptography , physics , electronics , and computer graphics .
using stem cells to replace damaged bodily tissue is called regenerative medicine . for example , scientists currently use stem cells to treat patients with blood diseases such as leukemia . leukemia is a form of cancer that affects your bone marrow .	how are stem cells used to treat leukemia ? what other diseases might be treatable in this way ?	how are stem cells used to treat leukemia ? what other diseases might be treatable in this way ?
and the lack of incentive to verify companies ' real owners makes it easy for people to cover their tracks . for example , someone may register a company in the name of a relative , an associate , or even a nominee director who acts on instruction from the company 's actual owner while keeping their name confidential . once registered , a company can do many of the same things as a human being , like opening bank accounts , buying and owning assets , and transferring money .	what is the nominee director ?	what is the nominee director ?
and the lack of incentive to verify companies ' real owners makes it easy for people to cover their tracks . for example , someone may register a company in the name of a relative , an associate , or even a nominee director who acts on instruction from the company 's actual owner while keeping their name confidential . once registered , a company can do many of the same things as a human being , like opening bank accounts , buying and owning assets , and transferring money .	what are some factors that make it possible to register an anonymous company ?	what are some factors that make it possible to register an anonymous company ?
and i have for you today the story of that journey , but also the notion that science can be as powerful as a translator as it can be for invention . when we began this process , we were looking , it was about three years ago , and we 'd just had the first two fatal shark attacks in western australia , and by chance , in a previous role , i happened to be having dinner with harry butler . now harry butler , who most australians would know is a famous naturalist , had spent a lot of time in the marine environment . harry butler is a precursor , if you like , to the late steve irwin . when i asked him about what the solution to the problem might be , the answer was quite surprising .	why does harry butler believe attacks are increasing ?	why does harry butler believe attacks are increasing ?
circadian rhythms incorporate various cues to regulate when an organism should wake and sleep , and perform certain activities . for plants , light and temperature are the cues which trigger reactions that play out at a molecular scale . the cells in stems , leaves , and flowers contain phytochromes , tiny molecules that detect light .	how do plants know the difference between morning light and afternoon light ?	how do plants know the difference between morning light and afternoon light ?
every person has a unique and diverse community of gut microbes that can process food in different ways . one person 's gut microbes may be capable of releasing only a fraction of the calories that another person 's gut microbes can extract . so , what determines the membership of our gut microbial community ?	one person 's gut microbes may be capable of releasing only a fraction of the calories that another person 's gut microbes can extract .	one person 's gut microbes may be capable of releasing only a fraction of the calories that another person 's gut microbes can extract .
other renewable energy sources , such as wind , water , geothermal , and biofuels can also be used to generate electricity . global demand for energy is increasing , but the planet has limited energy resources to access through a complex energy infrastructure . as populations rise , alongside rates of industrialization and development , our energy decisions grow more and more important . access to energy impacts health , education , political power , and socioeconomic status .	what are some examples of energy decisions you make every day ?	what are some examples of energy decisions you make every day ?
blood-sucking monsters had already been part of folklore for at least 800 years . it was slavic folklore that gave us the word vampire , or `` upir '' in old russian . the term 's first known written mention comes from the 11th century .	the earliest known word from eastern europe we have for vampire is ______ .	the earliest known word from eastern europe we have for vampire is ______ .
a poetry slam is a competition in which poets are judged on their poems , often for qualities of emotional power and lyrical resonance . our lesson was created by gayle danley , a veteran slam poet who spent decades teaching children to express themselves through spoken words , a lesson , which offers a guide to creating poetry with immediacy and power , also serves as a great example of exactly that . it 's a story told in the form of a poem that packs a real emotional punch .	what best describes gayle danley ?	what best describes gayle danley ?
the french authorities were horrified . the book was censored and voltaire only narrowly avoided prison . that 's because the book presented an informal portrait of english culture , in a witty and ironical style looking in turn at religion , politics , science and literature , in ways that were critical implicitly of french culture and politics . here , for example , is how voltaire presents the royal exchange , a handsome building in the heart of the city of london , where merchants from across the world would meet to transact business .	list a few ways in which voltaire 's work directly affected politics and culture .	list a few ways in which voltaire 's work directly affected politics and culture .
they can cause tiny wounds in the inside of animals ' mouths , which create entry points for toxins . the mimosa plant has a strategy designed to prevent herbivores from taking a bite at all . specialized mechanoreceptor cells detect touch and shoot an electrical signal through the leaflet to its base causing cells there to release charged particles .	one of the defense strategies that mimosa plants use against herbivores is :	one of the defense strategies that mimosa plants use against herbivores is :
you can imagine how relieved we were at the instant that they were supposed to appear on the other side of the moon that they appeared ! my next assignment was again a support crew assignment on apollo 12 , and apollo 12 was struck by lightning on its way off the pad . a nearby thunderstorm , there was a lightning bolt that went over and hit the very tip of the spacecraft .	what happened to apollo 12 on its way off the launching pad ?	what happened to apollo 12 on its way off the launching pad ?
the wpa also employed thousands of writers , painters , sculptors , and artists to create works of art in public spaces . additionally , harry truman used an executive order to desegregate the armed forces in 1948 . and in 1965 , lyndon johnson signed an executive order to establish requirements for nondiscriminatory practices in hiring and employment .	which president used an executive order to desegregate the armed forces :	which president used an executive order to desegregate the armed forces :
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar tap dance : one of america 's major contributions to the world of percussive dance , born out of the melding of african and european dance traditions . there 's so many variations within tap dance , as many approaches as there have been tap dancers . and there have been a lot !	tap dance was born out of the melding of what dance traditions ?	tap dance was born out of the melding of what dance traditions ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar tap dance : one of america 's major contributions to the world of percussive dance , born out of the melding of african and european dance traditions . there 's so many variations within tap dance , as many approaches as there have been tap dancers . and there have been a lot !	what things happened in the 1970 's that caused a resurgence in tap dance enthusiasts ?	what things happened in the 1970 's that caused a resurgence in tap dance enthusiasts ?
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar tap dance : one of america 's major contributions to the world of percussive dance , born out of the melding of african and european dance traditions . there 's so many variations within tap dance , as many approaches as there have been tap dancers . and there have been a lot !	there is only one style of tap dance .	there is only one style of tap dance .
this means that they can be grown into any kind of tissue in the body . a third kind of stem cells is called induced pluripotent stem cells . these are regular skin , fat , liver , or other cells that scientists have changed to behave like embryonic stem cells .	how might induced pluripotent stem cells change how stem cell research is conducted ?	how might induced pluripotent stem cells change how stem cell research is conducted ?
opt for a sunscreen with an spf of at least 15 , although 30 is better . spf is a nonlinear scale of how much uvb radiation is needed to give protected skin a sunburn . spf 15 does a pretty good job by blocking 93 % of uvb rays . you get a slight increase as spf goes up , with spf 30 blocking 97 % , and 50 blocking 98 % . spf is based on the quantity of solar exposure . so how much time you have before you start to burn really depends on a long list of factors , including your genetics , and when , where , and how you spend your time in the sun .	since spf is a non-linear scale , doubling your spf will not double your protection from the sun .	since spf is a non-linear scale , doubling your spf will not double your protection from the sun .
and that 's very true in human societies and with other social animals . so i hope i 've convinced you that we have very similar lives to elephants and that elephants have very individual , durable characters that we 've measured across years . the bully always tends to be the bully unless there 's some kind of social upset , and he decides he better be a softy or else he 's not going to gain favor at all .	in what other ways are elephants similar to humans ?	in what other ways are elephants similar to humans ?
once there 's a large enough difference between charges either within the cloud or between the clouds and the earth below , it forms a spark that becomes a lightning bolt . lightning strikes the earth about 350 million times per year , averaging out to eleven strikes a second . we know that thanks to satellites up in space and sensors on the ground .	how many times does lightning strike the earth each year on average ?	how many times does lightning strike the earth each year on average ?
of course , if it only displaced 1,000 tons of water , well , hieron would n't be too happy . this is the law of buoyancy , and engineers still call it archimedes ' principle . it explains why a steel supertanker can float as easily as a wooden rowboat or a bathtub .	what was the principle archimedes discovered ?	what was the principle archimedes discovered ?
of course , if it only displaced 1,000 tons of water , well , hieron would n't be too happy . this is the law of buoyancy , and engineers still call it archimedes ' principle . it explains why a steel supertanker can float as easily as a wooden rowboat or a bathtub .	explain archimedes principle of buoyancy in your own words . draw a visual .	explain archimedes principle of buoyancy in your own words . draw a visual .
but out of all the herbs and spices on the culinary roster how did this ground up gray stuff become the go-to spice of life . seriously , why not salt and turmeric or salt and mustard , salt and cumin , salt and nutmeg , salt and coriander , salt and paprika , salt and cinnamon , salt and allspice , salt and cloves . [ music ] salt , or specifically sodium chloride .	what are two different ways salt and/or pepper were used to deal with foods that were expiring ?	what are two different ways salt and/or pepper were used to deal with foods that were expiring ?
the fifth one , however , is the seed that grows our story . this fifth mysterious postulate is known simply as the parallel postulate . you see , unlike the first four , the fifth postulate is worded in a very convoluted way .	which of the following mathematicians is not known for having worked on negating the parallel postulate ?	which of the following mathematicians is not known for having worked on negating the parallel postulate ?
the fifth one , however , is the seed that grows our story . this fifth mysterious postulate is known simply as the parallel postulate . you see , unlike the first four , the fifth postulate is worded in a very convoluted way .	which of euclid 's postulates is known as the parallel postulate ?	which of euclid 's postulates is known as the parallel postulate ?
if you find it hard to believe that something so tiny could have a complex brain , you 're not alone . in his project to classify and describe all living things , swedish naturalist carl linnaeus assumed insects had no brains at all . he was wrong , but understandably so .	which 18th-century naturalist , who formalized our current system of naming organisms , thought that insects didn ’ t have brains ?	which 18th-century naturalist , who formalized our current system of naming organisms , thought that insects didn ’ t have brains ?
bananas , at least the ones that you see at the store , were created by people . do n't get me wrong , there are wild banana plants - lots of them - they 're native to south and southeast asia , and there are dozens of species and thousands of varieties . they 're just not the ones we eat .	1. wild banana plants are native to_____ ?	1. wild banana plants are native to_____ ?
or , a routine blood test might count too many white cells or elevated liver enzymes . your doctor delivers the bad news : it 's cancer . from here your strategy will depend on where the cancer is and how far it 's progressed .	harry is diagnosed with prostate cancer . what are some questions that he should ask his doctor ? why should he ask those questions ?	harry is diagnosed with prostate cancer . what are some questions that he should ask his doctor ? why should he ask those questions ?
biofuels come from natural , renewable sources like plants , so they have the potential to reduce our reliance on those limited supply fossil fuels and reduce the risk of climate change . most biofuels today are made from corn grain that is fermented into ethanol . but we have a limited supply of this corn , so it 's not a solution to the limited supply part of the quandary .	why do scientists want to replace corn as a source of biofuels ?	why do scientists want to replace corn as a source of biofuels ?
what happened ? well , pressure is force divided by area . the smaller the area , the bigger the pressure .	pressure can be calculated by	pressure can be calculated by
translator : marcia de brito reviewer : ariana bleau lugo ( guitar music throughout ) music is a language . both music and verbal languages serve the same purpose . they are both forms of expression .	both music and verbal languages serve what purpose , according to wooten ?	both music and verbal languages serve what purpose , according to wooten ?
in a symbiosis , both species depend on each other . i want to tell you about a remarkable symbiosis between a little bird , the clark 's nutcracker , and a big tree , the whitebark pine . whitebark grow in the mountains of wyoming , montana and other western states .	how does the whitebark pine benefit from its association with the clark ’ s nutcracker ?	how does the whitebark pine benefit from its association with the clark ’ s nutcracker ?
in a symbiosis , both species depend on each other . i want to tell you about a remarkable symbiosis between a little bird , the clark 's nutcracker , and a big tree , the whitebark pine . whitebark grow in the mountains of wyoming , montana and other western states .	both squirrels and the clark ’ s nutcracker use whitebark pine as a food source . in what ways is their foraging similar , and how is it different ?	both squirrels and the clark ’ s nutcracker use whitebark pine as a food source . in what ways is their foraging similar , and how is it different ?
in a symbiosis , both species depend on each other . i want to tell you about a remarkable symbiosis between a little bird , the clark 's nutcracker , and a big tree , the whitebark pine . whitebark grow in the mountains of wyoming , montana and other western states .	where does the clark ’ s nutcracker store whitebark pine seeds , and how many can it store there ?	where does the clark ’ s nutcracker store whitebark pine seeds , and how many can it store there ?
in a symbiosis , both species depend on each other . i want to tell you about a remarkable symbiosis between a little bird , the clark 's nutcracker , and a big tree , the whitebark pine . whitebark grow in the mountains of wyoming , montana and other western states .	where can one find whitebark pine trees ?	where can one find whitebark pine trees ?
pair bonding and raising children is as old as humanity itself . with the rise of sedentary agricultural societies about 10,000 years ago , marriage was also a way of securing rights to land and property by designating children born under certain circumstances as rightful heirs . as these societies became larger and more complex , marriage became not just a matter between individuals and families , but also an official institution governed by religious and civil authorities .	what was the main purpose of marriage in agricultural societies ?	what was the main purpose of marriage in agricultural societies ?
now we 're quite close because the wildebeest are all where they need to be with safety in numbers . all that 's left is for that one lion to raft back and bring his fellow lions over one by one . that makes eleven trips total , the smallest number needed to get everyone across safely .	after two lions are on the left , the third lion rafts back ( fourth crossing ) . which animals raft now from the right side of the river back to the left ( fifth crossing ) ?	after two lions are on the left , the third lion rafts back ( fourth crossing ) . which animals raft now from the right side of the river back to the left ( fifth crossing ) ?
but considering how vital they were to the incan people , when spanish sailors returning from the andes first brought potatoes to europe , the spuds were duds . europeans simply did n't want to eat what they considered dull and tasteless oddities from a strange new land , too closely related to the deadly nightshade plant belladonna for comfort . so instead of consuming them , they used potatoes as decorative garden plants .	the potato was too closely related to which deadly species of plant for some european 's comfort ?	the potato was too closely related to which deadly species of plant for some european 's comfort ?
the left and the right sides of the brain do control different body functions , such as movement and sight . the brain 's right side controls the motion of the left arm and leg and vice versa . the visual system is even more complex .	the right side of the brain controls the movement of the :	the right side of the brain controls the movement of the :
a couple of days after the eggs are laid , they hatch , and the cycle begins again . and because we 've never seen the adult eels returning up the fresh water rivers , we must assume that , having completed their long and roundabout journey , these amazing and mysterious creatures finally die there , in the same place where they were born . goodbye , elaine !	we talk a bit about what fresh water eels eat , but many other creatures eat eels , too . what do you think those creatures might be ?	we talk a bit about what fresh water eels eat , but many other creatures eat eels , too . what do you think those creatures might be ?
unfortunately , i know very little about dubnium , i am not sure anybody knows much about it , but it is named after the russian atomic research establishment , dubna . in these artificial elements , the elements are either named after somebody who is famous like rutherford for rutherfordium or in the place where an element was first discovered , but often where there is argument about who discovered the element first , then it is more equitable to name it after scientists .	where was dubnium discovered ?	where was dubnium discovered ?
unfortunately , i know very little about dubnium , i am not sure anybody knows much about it , but it is named after the russian atomic research establishment , dubna . in these artificial elements , the elements are either named after somebody who is famous like rutherford for rutherfordium or in the place where an element was first discovered , but often where there is argument about who discovered the element first , then it is more equitable to name it after scientists .	where does the name dubnium come from ?	where does the name dubnium come from ?
unfortunately , i know very little about dubnium , i am not sure anybody knows much about it , but it is named after the russian atomic research establishment , dubna . in these artificial elements , the elements are either named after somebody who is famous like rutherford for rutherfordium or in the place where an element was first discovered , but often where there is argument about who discovered the element first , then it is more equitable to name it after scientists .	which atom did the discoverers of dubnium bombard with neon-22 to make dubnium for the first time in 1968 ?	which atom did the discoverers of dubnium bombard with neon-22 to make dubnium for the first time in 1968 ?
first , remember that many of the lies we encounter on a daily basis are far less serious that these examples , and may even be harmless . but it 's still worthwhile to be aware of telltale clues , like minimal self-references , negative language , simple explanations and convoluted phrasing . it just might help you avoid an overvalued stock , an ineffective product , or even a terrible relationship .	how conscious are you of the types of words you communicate ? do you say “ i ” or “ we ” more ? do you use more positive or negative language ?	how conscious are you of the types of words you communicate ? do you say “ i ” or “ we ” more ? do you use more positive or negative language ?
meanwhile , lightning density at the equator averages out to tens of flashes per square kilometer on account of the sun providing more heat to drive storms . yet nowhere can quite compare with lake maracaibo , where lightning strikes an average 250 times per square kilometer , giving it the highest lightning density of any place on earth . a number of factors converge to create the lake 's seemingly everlasting storms .	in which country will you find the highest lightning density on earth ?	in which country will you find the highest lightning density on earth ?
meanwhile , lightning density at the equator averages out to tens of flashes per square kilometer on account of the sun providing more heat to drive storms . yet nowhere can quite compare with lake maracaibo , where lightning strikes an average 250 times per square kilometer , giving it the highest lightning density of any place on earth . a number of factors converge to create the lake 's seemingly everlasting storms .	which of these regions has the lowest average lightning density ?	which of these regions has the lowest average lightning density ?
meanwhile , lightning density at the equator averages out to tens of flashes per square kilometer on account of the sun providing more heat to drive storms . yet nowhere can quite compare with lake maracaibo , where lightning strikes an average 250 times per square kilometer , giving it the highest lightning density of any place on earth . a number of factors converge to create the lake 's seemingly everlasting storms .	which factors are important for the lightning over lake maracaibo ?	which factors are important for the lightning over lake maracaibo ?
meanwhile , lightning density at the equator averages out to tens of flashes per square kilometer on account of the sun providing more heat to drive storms . yet nowhere can quite compare with lake maracaibo , where lightning strikes an average 250 times per square kilometer , giving it the highest lightning density of any place on earth . a number of factors converge to create the lake 's seemingly everlasting storms .	given the factors that make lightning so common over lake maracaibo , which other countries or regions of the planet might you also expect to experience a lot of lightning ?	given the factors that make lightning so common over lake maracaibo , which other countries or regions of the planet might you also expect to experience a lot of lightning ?
then so many , i lost count . in less than a day , i developed a gut and a skeleton . i became a rocket ship , a pluteus larva .	how long did it take for the plankton to develop a gut and a skeleton ?	how long did it take for the plankton to develop a gut and a skeleton ?
and that 's just one of many complicating factors . genetics , age , diet , disease , and even pregnancy influence the body 's efficiency of processing medicine . some day , routine dna tests may be able to dial in the precise dose of medicine personalized to your liver efficiency and other factors , but in the meantime , your best bet is reading the label or consulting your doctor or pharmacist , and taking the recommended amounts with the recommended timing .	a drug/medicine taken as a tablet can eventually treat any part of the body because it reaches the _________ that goes everywhere in the body .	a drug/medicine taken as a tablet can eventually treat any part of the body because it reaches the _________ that goes everywhere in the body .
and that 's just one of many complicating factors . genetics , age , diet , disease , and even pregnancy influence the body 's efficiency of processing medicine . some day , routine dna tests may be able to dial in the precise dose of medicine personalized to your liver efficiency and other factors , but in the meantime , your best bet is reading the label or consulting your doctor or pharmacist , and taking the recommended amounts with the recommended timing .	codeine is not an active molecule . it needs to be converted by liver enzymes into morphine to have a pain killing effect . drugs that need to be activated by the body , as codeine , are called prodrugs . what is the effect of varying levels of liver enzymes ( due to age , genetics , disease , and other factors ) on the therapeutic activity of codeine and other prodrugs ?	codeine is not an active molecule . it needs to be converted by liver enzymes into morphine to have a pain killing effect . drugs that need to be activated by the body , as codeine , are called prodrugs . what is the effect of varying levels of liver enzymes ( due to age , genetics , disease , and other factors ) on the therapeutic activity of codeine and other prodrugs ?
and that 's just one of many complicating factors . genetics , age , diet , disease , and even pregnancy influence the body 's efficiency of processing medicine . some day , routine dna tests may be able to dial in the precise dose of medicine personalized to your liver efficiency and other factors , but in the meantime , your best bet is reading the label or consulting your doctor or pharmacist , and taking the recommended amounts with the recommended timing .	the extent and speed of drug/medicine processing by the body varies with ________ .	the extent and speed of drug/medicine processing by the body varies with ________ .
in another , not so much . there are still some scientists who would say , hogwash . the only meaningful answer to the question of how many universes there are is one , only one universe . and a few philosophers and mystics might argue that even our own universe is an illusion .	when scientists refer to a reality made up of many universes , what do they call it ?	when scientists refer to a reality made up of many universes , what do they call it ?
so this is a sample of my favourite element , this is phosphorus . phosphorus is a very , very reactive element , especially this type of phosphorus which is white phosphorus . phosphorus itself , elemental phosphorus , exists as a number of different allotropes , so a bit like carbon with diamond and graphite , and here we have one of these allotropes ; it ’ s white phosphorus .	what is the molecular formula of the reactive allotrope white phosphorus ?	what is the molecular formula of the reactive allotrope white phosphorus ?
so this is a sample of my favourite element , this is phosphorus . phosphorus is a very , very reactive element , especially this type of phosphorus which is white phosphorus . phosphorus itself , elemental phosphorus , exists as a number of different allotropes , so a bit like carbon with diamond and graphite , and here we have one of these allotropes ; it ’ s white phosphorus .	at home , where can we find an application of red phosphorus ?	at home , where can we find an application of red phosphorus ?
so this is a sample of my favourite element , this is phosphorus . phosphorus is a very , very reactive element , especially this type of phosphorus which is white phosphorus . phosphorus itself , elemental phosphorus , exists as a number of different allotropes , so a bit like carbon with diamond and graphite , and here we have one of these allotropes ; it ’ s white phosphorus .	what is the reaction that pete performed on a piece of filter paper with his favorite element , phosphorus ?	what is the reaction that pete performed on a piece of filter paper with his favorite element , phosphorus ?
so this is a sample of my favourite element , this is phosphorus . phosphorus is a very , very reactive element , especially this type of phosphorus which is white phosphorus . phosphorus itself , elemental phosphorus , exists as a number of different allotropes , so a bit like carbon with diamond and graphite , and here we have one of these allotropes ; it ’ s white phosphorus .	in the exothermic oxidation of white phosphorus , a white product is formed . what is it ? and what is the acid that is generated when you breathe it in and it reacts with the water in your nose and mouth ?	in the exothermic oxidation of white phosphorus , a white product is formed . what is it ? and what is the acid that is generated when you breathe it in and it reacts with the water in your nose and mouth ?
these legal frameworks aim to contain and prevent atrocities from being more atrocious . commandeering civilian planes and using them as weapons , dropping atomic bombs , the use of gas chambers or poisonous gas in conflict , all of these actions , if committed , constitute acts of war and war crimes under customary international law and the hague conventions . again , the current legal framework stays silent on hypothetical questions and countless others because there are no easy answers , and there are only two ways to make progress on these questions : peace or new laws .	someone can be a cyberwar criminal and tried at the hague .	someone can be a cyberwar criminal and tried at the hague .
in these cases , the divides , the regions between the river segments , are disconnected from one another and diverge away from one another uphill . but river networks look fundamentally different on convex promontories or protrusions . here , the river channels are disconnected from one another and diverge away from one another downstream , not very river-like .	which is true about river networks on promontories ?	which is true about river networks on promontories ?
photons start off at very high energies compared to when they 're finally radiated from the sun 's surface . now when we use a computer and a sophisticated solar interior model to calculate the random walk equation with these changing quantities , it spits out the following number : 170,000 years . future discoveries about the sun may refine this number further , but for now , to the best of our understanding , the light that 's hitting your eyes today spent 170,000 years pinballing its way towards the sun 's surface , plus eight miniscule minutes in space .	when a computer model that takes into consideration the changing solar interior is used to calculate a photon 's random walk , what is the re-calculated length of time a photon stays in the sun ?	when a computer model that takes into consideration the changing solar interior is used to calculate a photon 's random walk , what is the re-calculated length of time a photon stays in the sun ?
and it all started with that one group . i want to give you this new motivation about a new nature movement , and 7 reasons for a new nature movement . you can create your own reasons , but these are 7 reasons that we 're talking about .	what is martinez 's primary motivation ?	what is martinez 's primary motivation ?
and it all started with that one group . i want to give you this new motivation about a new nature movement , and 7 reasons for a new nature movement . you can create your own reasons , but these are 7 reasons that we 're talking about .	juan martinez tells the story of nearly becoming a gang member . he dove deep into nature to escape that horrible fate . give other examples where people have retreated into alternative lifestyles to escape a bad life decision . ( example : my friend became a volunteer at a nursing home instead of doing drugs ) .	juan martinez tells the story of nearly becoming a gang member . he dove deep into nature to escape that horrible fate . give other examples where people have retreated into alternative lifestyles to escape a bad life decision . ( example : my friend became a volunteer at a nursing home instead of doing drugs ) .
water is virtually eveywhere , from soil moisture and ice caps , to the cells inside our own bodies . depending on factors like location , fat index , age , and sex , the average human is between 55-60 % water .	what are some symptoms of overhydration ?	what are some symptoms of overhydration ?
water is virtually eveywhere , from soil moisture and ice caps , to the cells inside our own bodies . depending on factors like location , fat index , age , and sex , the average human is between 55-60 % water .	what are some of the different ways you can hydrate ?	what are some of the different ways you can hydrate ?
periods work best here because these are two totally different ideas . a semicolon 's job is to reunite two independent clauses that will benefit from one another 's company because they refer to the same thing . secondly , you 'll almost never find a semicolon willingly stationed before coordinating conjunctions : the words , `` and , '' `` but , '' `` for , '' `` nor , '' `` or , '' `` so , '' and `` yet . ''	one of the semicolon 's grammatical functions is to :	one of the semicolon 's grammatical functions is to :
periods work best here because these are two totally different ideas . a semicolon 's job is to reunite two independent clauses that will benefit from one another 's company because they refer to the same thing . secondly , you 'll almost never find a semicolon willingly stationed before coordinating conjunctions : the words , `` and , '' `` but , '' `` for , '' `` nor , '' `` or , '' `` so , '' and `` yet . ''	another of the semicolon 's grammatical functions is to :	another of the semicolon 's grammatical functions is to :
they 're just not the ones we eat . some those species , as you might suspect , have seeds , 'cause that 's what fruits are , they 're fleshy bodies containing seeds . so you might wonder , why have you never eaten a banana seed ?	2. fruits are fleshy bodies containing____	2. fruits are fleshy bodies containing____
the fact is that if you were speaking english before about a thousand years ago , beek is exactly what you would have said for more than one book . if modern english is strange , old english needed therapy . believe it or not , english used to be an even harder language to learn than it is today .	what do modern english speakers do to words when they want to talk about more than one of something ?	what do modern english speakers do to words when they want to talk about more than one of something ?
the fact is that if you were speaking english before about a thousand years ago , beek is exactly what you would have said for more than one book . if modern english is strange , old english needed therapy . believe it or not , english used to be an even harder language to learn than it is today .	why did modern english evolve from its ancestor , old english ?	why did modern english evolve from its ancestor , old english ?
the fact is that if you were speaking english before about a thousand years ago , beek is exactly what you would have said for more than one book . if modern english is strange , old english needed therapy . believe it or not , english used to be an even harder language to learn than it is today .	have you noticed evolution in the english language ? explain your observations ( including reasons you think they happened ) .	have you noticed evolution in the english language ? explain your observations ( including reasons you think they happened ) .
meanwhile , proteins and amino acids , the building block nutrients of growth and development , manipulate how we feel and behave . amino acids contain the precursors to neurotransmitters , the chemical messengers that carry signals between neurons , affecting things like mood , sleep , attentiveness , and weight . they 're one of the reasons we might feel calm after eating a large plate of pasta , or more alert after a protein-rich meal .	amino acids contain the precursors to neurotransmitters . which of the following is a neurotransmitter ?	amino acids contain the precursors to neurotransmitters . which of the following is a neurotransmitter ?
that not only disrupts their ability to communicate but as destroyed axons begin to degenerate , they also release toxins causing the death of other neurons , too . this combination of events causes a concussion . the damage can manifest in many different ways including blackout , headache , blurry vision , balance problems , altered mood and behavior , problems with memory , thinking , and sleeping , and the onset of anxiety and depression .	what causes the symptoms of concussion ?	what causes the symptoms of concussion ?
and who would n't want the love of their life drooling over them ? but life is not just bell rings and salivation . there 's also a dark side to this type of learning , called `` taste aversion '' .	the video explained how bell rings produced saliva in dogs and how nauseating feelings might lead to the avoidance of the food that preceded those feelings . in all the examples , there was a temporal order to the events . what is the ordering of events , and why do you think it ’ s important ? ( hint : you can not reverse the temporal order of events and get the same result ! )	the video explained how bell rings produced saliva in dogs and how nauseating feelings might lead to the avoidance of the food that preceded those feelings . in all the examples , there was a temporal order to the events . what is the ordering of events , and why do you think it ’ s important ? ( hint : you can not reverse the temporal order of events and get the same result ! )
so a sundial may be as much as sixteen minutes ahead or fourteen minutes behind a regular clock . in fact , clock time and sun time only match four times a year . the analemma 's width represents the extent of this deviation .	describe how people could have used the sun to set their clocks before the advent of modern time keeping .	describe how people could have used the sun to set their clocks before the advent of modern time keeping .
so a sundial may be as much as sixteen minutes ahead or fourteen minutes behind a regular clock . in fact , clock time and sun time only match four times a year . the analemma 's width represents the extent of this deviation .	if you photographed the sun at the same place and the same time for a year , its path would appear to trace a _______________ in the sky .	if you photographed the sun at the same place and the same time for a year , its path would appear to trace a _______________ in the sky .
so a sundial may be as much as sixteen minutes ahead or fourteen minutes behind a regular clock . in fact , clock time and sun time only match four times a year . the analemma 's width represents the extent of this deviation .	during the year a clock usually reads differently than the time compared to a sundial . sometimes the sun is ahead of the clock and at times it is behind . what is responsible for this difference ?	during the year a clock usually reads differently than the time compared to a sundial . sometimes the sun is ahead of the clock and at times it is behind . what is responsible for this difference ?
after all , you could memorize 5,000 words of russian and still be barely able to construct a sentence . a four-year-old would talk rings around you . that 's because you have to know how to put the words together .	what would be the first fifty words you would create to fashion the most useful language possible ?	what would be the first fifty words you would create to fashion the most useful language possible ?
but in a race , fast does n't matter if you take a detour while someone else beelines it for the finish line . for exactly that reason , photons do n't win the supernova race to earth . neutrinos do .	why are supernova neutrinos able to travel to earth without getting caught in the plasma envelope like photons do ?	why are supernova neutrinos able to travel to earth without getting caught in the plasma envelope like photons do ?
if you hung modern art on your walls , had a multiracial social circle , or signed petitions against nuclear weapons , you might just have been a communist . starting in the late 1940s , fbi director j. edgar hoover used the resources of his agency to hunt down such supposed communists and eliminate them from any position of influence within american society . and the narrow criteria that hoover and his allies used to screen federal employees spread to the rest of the country .	which organization run by j. edgar hoover sought to hunt down and eliminate communists from any position of influence in society ?	which organization run by j. edgar hoover sought to hunt down and eliminate communists from any position of influence in society ?
in fact , much of what we do know comes from studying the mechanics of itching in mice . researchers have discovered that itch signals in their skin are transmitted via a subclass of the nerves that are associated with pain . these dedicated nerves produce a molecule called natriuretic polypetide b , which triggers a signal that 's carried up the spinal cord to the brain , where it creates the feeling of an itch .	what other sensations are the nerve cells that transmit itch signals associated with ?	what other sensations are the nerve cells that transmit itch signals associated with ?
who would cast a vote for two names . the man with the most votes would be president , the second-place finisher was vice president . ah , but who picked the electors ?	under the original plan for electing the president , the vice president was :	under the original plan for electing the president , the vice president was :
passion is sometimes mistaken for ambition . people call donald trump ambitious , but he says , `` i 'm not ambitious . i just love what i do .	people call donald trump ambitious , but he says :	people call donald trump ambitious , but he says :
a thousand years ? one million years ? you might end up looking like a horribly scuffed-up mr .	is it reasonable to believe that humans will still look the same a million years from now ?	is it reasonable to believe that humans will still look the same a million years from now ?
ammonia , or nh3 , is shaped like a pyramid . carbon dioxide , or co2 , is a straight line . water , h2o , is bent like your elbow would be bent .	water ( h2o ) and carbon dioxide ( co2 ) both have three atoms each , but water is bent , whereas carbon dioxide is linear . draw lewis structures of each molecule and use these to explain the difference in molecular geometries .	water ( h2o ) and carbon dioxide ( co2 ) both have three atoms each , but water is bent , whereas carbon dioxide is linear . draw lewis structures of each molecule and use these to explain the difference in molecular geometries .
in 1987 , stephen , his brother scott and his friend marwood drove from reed college in oregon to prairie creek redwoods state park in northern california . deep inside the park , stephen picked the tallest redwood he could find . its lowest branches were almost 100 feet up , far beyond his reach .	what did stephen observe on the tops of large branches inside the crown ?	what did stephen observe on the tops of large branches inside the crown ?
so we had to give it all the smarts and knowledge it needed to make it happen . so we built in all these smarts and algorithms and told it here 's what you 're going to have to do , and it goes from basically five times the speed of a speeding bullet to about a baby 's crawl , all within about seven minutes , which are called the seven minutes of terror , because i was about to throw up . ( laughter ) but today we 're on the surface of mars , and this was one of the panoramas we took a couple days after we landed , and it 's amazing to me , because you look at this , and can see the grand canyon , you can see your own planet , you can imagine walking on the surface .	ferdowsi 's team had to `` build-in all these smarts and algorithms '' in order to account for what he called the seven minutes of terror . for what exactly were they adjusting ?	ferdowsi 's team had to `` build-in all these smarts and algorithms '' in order to account for what he called the seven minutes of terror . for what exactly were they adjusting ?
but both men believed that slavery was going to die out as the 19th century dawned , they were , of course , tragically mistaken . the reason was an invention , a machine they probably told you about in elementary school : mr. eli whitney 's cotton gin . a yale graduate , 28-year-old whitney had come to south carolina to work as a tutor in 1793 . supposedly he was told by some local planters about the difficulty of cleaning cotton .	eli whitney moved to south carolina to become	eli whitney moved to south carolina to become
translator : andrea mcdonough reviewer : bedirhan cinar my name is tom chi . i spent two years of my life building the user experience team for the google x division of google , and it 's a place i affectionately call the department of science fiction because of the futuristic nature of the types of projects we took on : self-driving cars , google glass , and other things that you 'll see soon enough .	what tom cruise movie does chi refer to in his talk ?	what tom cruise movie does chi refer to in his talk ?
the ability to use the power of 10 as an estimation tool can come in handy every now and again , like when you 're trying to guess the number of m & amp ; amp ; m 's in a jar , but is also an essential skill in math and science , especially when dealing with what are known as fermi problems . fermi problems are named after the physicist enrico fermi , who 's famous for making rapid order-of-magnitude estimations , or rapid estimations , with seemingly little available data . fermi worked on the manhattan project in developing the atomic bomb , and when it was tested at the trinity site in 1945 , fermi dropped a few pieces of paper during the blast and used the distance they traveled backwards as they fell to estimate the strength of the explosion as 10 kilotons of tnt , which is on the same order of magnitude as the actual value of 20 kilotons .	what are fermi problems ?	what are fermi problems ?
for over a decade , american political leaders trampled democratic freedoms in the name of protecting them . during the 1930s and 1940s , there had been an active but small communist party in the united states . its record was mixed .	it is the 1950 ’ s in the united states . you are suspected of being a communist . what are some of your “ characteristics ? ”	it is the 1950 ’ s in the united states . you are suspected of being a communist . what are some of your “ characteristics ? ”
as the days grow warmer , the flowers and trees start to bloom , and the world comes alive with the melodious call of birds in search of a new mate . but where have these enchanting sounds been hiding all winter ? for almost 200 species of song birds , their winters have been spent down in the tropical climates of central and south america . while this may sound ideal , it involves one of the most perilous journeys known in the entire animal kingdom .	while migration is one way to avoid the hardships of winter , many animals as well as some bird species have found ways of adapting to limited food and cold temperatures without needing to leave their homes . what are some examples of how species tough it out through difficult times ?	while migration is one way to avoid the hardships of winter , many animals as well as some bird species have found ways of adapting to limited food and cold temperatures without needing to leave their homes . what are some examples of how species tough it out through difficult times ?
in 1824 , new york prison guard james hardie credited the device with taming his more boisterous inmates , writing that the `` monotonous steadiness , and not its severity ... constitutes its terror , '' a quote many still agree with . and treadmills lasted in england until the late 19th century , when they were banned for being excessively cruel under the prison 's act of 1898 . but of course the torture device returned with a vengeance , this time targeting the unsuspecting public .	after the treadmill was banned for being excessively cruel in england , it reemerged in the united states as a form of exercise . why do you think the treadmill became popular with the general public ?	after the treadmill was banned for being excessively cruel in england , it reemerged in the united states as a form of exercise . why do you think the treadmill became popular with the general public ?
when this swarm of molecules runs into things , it exerts a force , pressing against the boundaries of the fluid , like water pressing against the glass of a bottle . this is known as air pressure . and while air is lighter than water , all those molecules still get pretty heavy , with the total air filling a typical school gym , weighing about as much as an adult elephant . so when you walk into a gym , how come you 're not immediately crushed by the elephant of air in the room ?	the air in a typical gymnasium can weigh as much as ________ .	the air in a typical gymnasium can weigh as much as ________ .
as we walk through our daily environments , we 're surrounded by exotic creatures that are too small to see with the naked eye . we usually imagine these microscopic organisms , or microbes , as asocial cells that float around by themselves . but in reality , microbes gather by the millions to form vast communities known as biofilms .	in the lab , microbes are often grown in shaking liquid flasks where they are unable to build a biofilm and usually grow as single cells . what do we call this independent microbial lifestyle and how does this differ from the way microbes tend to grow in nature ?	in the lab , microbes are often grown in shaking liquid flasks where they are unable to build a biofilm and usually grow as single cells . what do we call this independent microbial lifestyle and how does this differ from the way microbes tend to grow in nature ?
this is very similar to what someone watching a video recording of our experience would see . moving up to the second rung , we filter in specific information and details from our experience . we unknowingly filter based on our preferences , tendencies , and many other aspects that we believe are important .	on the second rung of the ladder of inference , we filter in specific information and details because :	on the second rung of the ladder of inference , we filter in specific information and details because :
everything that someone else measures about you , you actually own . so , it 's my hope , maybe because i 'm a canadian , that all of us can come together with this really valuable data that we 've been storing , and we can collectively launch that data toward some of the world 's most difficulty problems because big data can solve big problems , but i think it can do it the best if it 's all of us who are in control . thank you .	list a few problems with big data ( specifically that data captured from people all around the world using social media ) .	list a few problems with big data ( specifically that data captured from people all around the world using social media ) .
but most of her audience didn ’ t actually read that book . they read harry potter and the sorcerer ’ s stone . or harry potter a l'ecole des sorciers harry potter va sang-e jadu harry potter y la piedra filosofal [ cool humming of `` hedwig 's theme '' ] the bewitching harry potter books have reached readers in over 200 territories in over 60 languages . the authorized translations came from separate publishing houses with little oversight from the author .	what are some factors that make it challenging to translate harry potter ?	what are some factors that make it challenging to translate harry potter ?
but the disruption of a natural ecosystem by an introduced foreign species can have unpredictable and uncontrollable effects that may not be immediately visible . so when culerpa taxifolia was discovered at carlsbad 's agua hedionda lagoon , near san diego in the year 2000 , having most likely come from the dumping of home aquarium water into a connecting storm drain , it was decided to stop it before it spread . tarps were placed over the culerpa colonies and chlorine injected inside .	the california coastal town that found caulerpa in agua hedionda lagoon and became the first place in the world to eradicate it is called :	the california coastal town that found caulerpa in agua hedionda lagoon and became the first place in the world to eradicate it is called :
has anyone ever told you , `` stand up straight ! '' or scolded you for slouching at a family dinner ?	which of the following is the besto ption for musculoskeletal health ?	which of the following is the besto ption for musculoskeletal health ?
the extinction of species is a normal occurrence in the background of ecosystems . but studies suggest that rates of extinction today for many organisms are hundreds to thousands of times higher than the normal background . but the same unique ability that makes humans capable of driving mass extinctions can also enable us to prevent them .	rates of extinction today are _______________ .	rates of extinction today are _______________ .
now let 's do a little quick math . if we compare a major cinematic film produced on a 2.35 to 1 aspect frame with my standard 4 to 3 tv screen , we find out that only 55 % of the movie can actually fit on the screen at any one time . just over half !	do you think it would be easier to change the way we currently produce televisions in order to fit major cinematic films , or the way we currently produce major cinematic films in order to better fit on the average television ? why ?	do you think it would be easier to change the way we currently produce televisions in order to fit major cinematic films , or the way we currently produce major cinematic films in order to better fit on the average television ? why ?
now let 's do a little quick math . if we compare a major cinematic film produced on a 2.35 to 1 aspect frame with my standard 4 to 3 tv screen , we find out that only 55 % of the movie can actually fit on the screen at any one time . just over half !	if you take a major cinematic film ( produced in 2.35:1aspect frame ) and compare it with a television ( 4:3 screen ) , we find that how much of the original movie can fit on the television screen ?	if you take a major cinematic film ( produced in 2.35:1aspect frame ) and compare it with a television ( 4:3 screen ) , we find that how much of the original movie can fit on the television screen ?
but here we can see a really nice example of indium and this is 99.9 % pure . but it ’ s a metal which has suddenly become very much more expensive because its oxide is transparent to light but will conduct electricity . so it is indium oxide that you find on every lcd display . here is a rather old computer and here is an old fashioned computer , the lcd display was quite small and gradually they have got bigger and bigger and therefore demand for indium oxide is more and more and probably you are watching this video clip through a thin layer of indium oxide .	indium oxide is transparent to light but it conducts electricity . this property means it can be found where ?	indium oxide is transparent to light but it conducts electricity . this property means it can be found where ?
measuring the spin of the first electron determines what spin will measure for the second , whether the two particles are a mile or a light year apart . somehow , information about the first electron 's quantum state , called a qubit of data , influences its partner without transmission across the intervening space . einstein and his colleagues called this strange communcation spooky action at a distance .	in a quantum teleport , it 's the quantum state that gives an electron its unique identity ; this identity is transferred from an electron located at an initial location in space to another electron located at the final location . if it were possible today for a human being—whose body is made up of an enormous collection of atomic particles—to teleport , would the being who stepped out of a so-called teleporter at the final location still be the same person ?	in a quantum teleport , it 's the quantum state that gives an electron its unique identity ; this identity is transferred from an electron located at an initial location in space to another electron located at the final location . if it were possible today for a human being—whose body is made up of an enormous collection of atomic particles—to teleport , would the being who stepped out of a so-called teleporter at the final location still be the same person ?
a portmanteau of smoke and fog , the word smog was coined at the beginning of the 20th century to describe the thick gray haze that covered cities such as london , glasgow , and edinburgh . this industrial smog was known to form when smoke from coal-burning home stoves and factories combined with moisture in the air . but the smog behind the la panic was different .	the burning of which fuel is the main source of industrial smog ?	the burning of which fuel is the main source of industrial smog ?
the words of god , revealed to the prophet over 23 years , are collected in the quran , which literally translates into `` the recitation . '' muslims believe it to be the only holy book free of human corruption . it 's also considered by many to be the finest work of literature in the arabic language .	which of the following is the holiest book of islam ?	which of the following is the holiest book of islam ?
the crazy thing is that at the same temperature , all gases have the same energy . it does n't depend on the type of gas , just the temperature that gas is at . keep in mind this is a model for the way gas particles behave , and based on our observations , gases always move in straight lines .	how is temperature related to gas activity ?	how is temperature related to gas activity ?
this is where neutrons , which had only recently been discovered when they did these experiments , hit an element that is not radioactive , increase the weight of the nucleus but not the number of protons and cause it to fall apart by radioactive decay . and it also , like einsteinium , where it was first found in the debris of a nuclear bomb , in fact the very first nuclear bomb that was ever tested . shortly after the fascists took power in italy , fermi moved to the united states and , as part of the manhattan project for building the atomic bomb , he built the first nuclear reactor under the football stadium , in the squash courts under the football stadium at chicago university , the university of chicago , right in the centre of chicago , and they filled the squash courts with blocks of carbon with holes in the middle through which they put rods of uranium .	as with einsteinium , fermium was first observed in the debris of the very first nuclear bomb . what was the bomb´s name ?	as with einsteinium , fermium was first observed in the debris of the very first nuclear bomb . what was the bomb´s name ?
this is where neutrons , which had only recently been discovered when they did these experiments , hit an element that is not radioactive , increase the weight of the nucleus but not the number of protons and cause it to fall apart by radioactive decay . and it also , like einsteinium , where it was first found in the debris of a nuclear bomb , in fact the very first nuclear bomb that was ever tested . shortly after the fascists took power in italy , fermi moved to the united states and , as part of the manhattan project for building the atomic bomb , he built the first nuclear reactor under the football stadium , in the squash courts under the football stadium at chicago university , the university of chicago , right in the centre of chicago , and they filled the squash courts with blocks of carbon with holes in the middle through which they put rods of uranium .	where did the first sustained nuclear chain reaction take place ?	where did the first sustained nuclear chain reaction take place ?
that is really true and once you say that . that is what 's so important about the scientific method . we set out to disprove our theories and it 's when ca n't disprove them that we say this must be getting at something really true about our reality .	how can this video make us think about how we approach the scientific method in order to solve our hypothesizes ?	how can this video make us think about how we approach the scientific method in order to solve our hypothesizes ?
if we stretched out all the dna in this one cell into a single thread , it would be over 3 feet long ! we have to make it fit in a tiny compartment that 's a million times smaller . we could just bunch it up like christmas lights , but that could get messy .	dna is crammed into a space nearly 1 million times smaller than itself . what does it first do to organize itself ?	dna is crammed into a space nearly 1 million times smaller than itself . what does it first do to organize itself ?
is it vandalism ? in the 1st century bce , romans regularly inscribed messages on public walls , while oceans away , mayans were prolifically scratching drawings onto their surfaces . and it was n't always a subversive act .	the members of which ancient society regularly inscribed public messages on to city walls ?	the members of which ancient society regularly inscribed public messages on to city walls ?
the fourth amendment is the right to search and seizure . the police ca n't come into our home without a search warrant and take our personal property . today , many concerns have arisen about our rights to privacy in technology . for example , can the government track your location with your smartphone , or can social media postings such as on facebook and twitter be used without a warrant ? on to the fifth : it 's all about due process .	the forth amendment protects us from search and seizure without a warrant . do you think the government should be able to use technology ( like gps and social media updates ) without a warrant ? explain pros and cons of allowing the government to use technology without a warrant .	the forth amendment protects us from search and seizure without a warrant . do you think the government should be able to use technology ( like gps and social media updates ) without a warrant ? explain pros and cons of allowing the government to use technology without a warrant .
shakespeare also uses slightly more complex metaphors to describe the intentions of a mischievous man . for instance , `` this holy shrine , the gentle sin is this : my lips , two blushing pilgrims , ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss , '' essentially means , `` i wish to kiss you . '' such male intentions were not limited to simple pecks on the cheek either .	`` this holy shrine , the gentle sin is this my lips , two blushing pilgrims , ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss '' means : _______ .	`` this holy shrine , the gentle sin is this my lips , two blushing pilgrims , ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss '' means : _______ .
this is most certainly not the case because a paper that is made up of passage upon passage of other people 's ideas is known as a wholly quotable document . this is considered plagiarism since there are no original thoughts in the work . similarly , passage after passage of too closely paraphrased text from multiple cited sources is also plagiarism of the pervasively paraphrased kind because the ideas still are n't one 's own .	why do you think that plagiarism is considered to be such a serious offense in the academic community ? what do you think are the most important reasons to avoid plagiarism ? write one paragraph .	why do you think that plagiarism is considered to be such a serious offense in the academic community ? what do you think are the most important reasons to avoid plagiarism ? write one paragraph .
so , how did they accomplish this feat ? until recently , marine biologists thought of larval fish as largely passive drifters , dispersed by ocean currents to distant locales . but in the last 20 years , new research has suggested that larvae may not be as helpless as they seem , and are capable of taking their fate in their own fins to maximize their chances of survival .	how long can the larval phase last ?	how long can the larval phase last ?
so eating omega-rich foods , like nuts , seeds , and fatty fish , is crucial to the creation and maintenance of cell membranes . and while omegas are good fats for your brain , long-term consumption of other fats , like trans and saturated fats , may compromise brain health . meanwhile , proteins and amino acids , the building block nutrients of growth and development , manipulate how we feel and behave .	why is glucose important for brain health ?	why is glucose important for brain health ?
but what happened on land is only half the story . what had been one giant ocean was now two , creating differences in temperature and salinity for the two bodies of water . the isthmus also became a barrier for many marine organisms , like mollusks , crustaceans , foraminifera , bryozoans , and fish , and separated the populations of many marine species .	the isthmus of panama divided what was once a giant ocean producing changes in _____ for the two bodies of water .	the isthmus of panama divided what was once a giant ocean producing changes in _____ for the two bodies of water .
this flow of water mimics the flow of blood in life . the valves are completely efficient . you 'll notice they do n't leak at all when the ventricles are squeezed .	the atrioventricular valves seal by the surfaces of the flaps coming together- the edges of the flaps do not scrape against each other or against the walls of the ventricles . why is this frictionless way of closing , which doesn ’ t cause any wear on the valves , important ?	the atrioventricular valves seal by the surfaces of the flaps coming together- the edges of the flaps do not scrape against each other or against the walls of the ventricles . why is this frictionless way of closing , which doesn ’ t cause any wear on the valves , important ?
these airways have an inner lining called the mucosa that 's surrounded by a layer of smooth muscle . in people with asthma , the airways are chronically inflamed , which can make them hyper-responsive to certain triggers . some of the many asthma triggers include tobacco smoke , pollen , dust , fragrances , exercise , cold weather , stress , and even the common cold . when people with asthma are exposed to these triggers , an asthma attack , or exacerbation , can occur . but how exactly do such everyday factors lead to an asthma attack ?	which of the following are considered asthma triggers ?	which of the following are considered asthma triggers ?
the ocean is like a huge underwater museum that constantly adds to our knowledge about humanity . with only a fraction of it explored , discoveries are sure to continue long into the future .	incredible new discoveries are made at which depth ?	incredible new discoveries are made at which depth ?
it 's just that higher entropy is always statistically more likely . that 's why entropy has been called time 's arrow . if energy has the opportunity to spread out , it will .	entropy is often called “ time ’ s arrow ” because :	entropy is often called “ time ’ s arrow ” because :
using a hypothetical nesting season , for females may nest multiple times in a single year , of 1,000 eggs , for sake of ease . 1000 eggs laid . 800 hatch .	how many eggs are laid by a mother sea turtle , and what percentage never hatches ?	how many eggs are laid by a mother sea turtle , and what percentage never hatches ?
it weighs a few milligrams but it ’ s a very , very nice sample , stirred under an inert atmosphere so that we can control the chemistry , so it ’ s full of un-reactive argon so we can ’ t form the oxide . lutetium , although it might not be obvious to you , is named after a european capital city . lutetium is also used in radionucleotide treatment for cancers so it ’ s got a very useful role .	which european capital is lutetium named after ?	which european capital is lutetium named after ?
but what 's the catch ? air is not empty . elements like oxygen and nitrogen , even countless dust particles , make up the air around us . when we move past these things in the air , we 're rubbing against them and creating a lot of friction , which results in heat .	which of the following is not a common component found in the air around us ?	which of the following is not a common component found in the air around us ?
they 're still soil and water , you 've just created a mixture of soil and water -- mud . it turns out that macaroni salad is actually a mixture of mixtures because many of the ingredients , like mayo and mustard , are already mixtures themselves , which is nice for us because if we look closely , we 'll the see the three main types of mixtures that exist . the size of the particles in a mixture determines the type of mixture .	what are the three main types of mixtures ?	what are the three main types of mixtures ?
they 're still soil and water , you 've just created a mixture of soil and water -- mud . it turns out that macaroni salad is actually a mixture of mixtures because many of the ingredients , like mayo and mustard , are already mixtures themselves , which is nice for us because if we look closely , we 'll the see the three main types of mixtures that exist . the size of the particles in a mixture determines the type of mixture .	what are examples of other mixtures that you can break down physically ?	what are examples of other mixtures that you can break down physically ?
in 1796 , thomas jefferson received a box of bones he could n't identify . a long , sharp claw reminded him of a lion , but the arm bones suggested a larger animal , one about three meters long .	thomas jefferson received a box of giant ground sloth bones he couldn ’ t identify . he initially thought they were from a :	thomas jefferson received a box of giant ground sloth bones he couldn ’ t identify . he initially thought they were from a :
the english version of the harry potter series has 1,084,170 words , which makes `` hippogriff '' on page 221 of `` the prisoner of azkaban '' a little less than one part per million . a million kernels of corn is about 1,250 ears , so one kernel in that truckload would be one part per million . there are 10 million bricks in the empire state building , so one part per million would be a pile of just ten .	your friend gives you a card that states that you 're “ one in a million. ” after watching this lesson , how might your reaction to this sentiment change ? rewrite the card using the phrase “ part per million ” instead .	your friend gives you a card that states that you 're “ one in a million. ” after watching this lesson , how might your reaction to this sentiment change ? rewrite the card using the phrase “ part per million ” instead .
the english version of the harry potter series has 1,084,170 words , which makes `` hippogriff '' on page 221 of `` the prisoner of azkaban '' a little less than one part per million . a million kernels of corn is about 1,250 ears , so one kernel in that truckload would be one part per million . there are 10 million bricks in the empire state building , so one part per million would be a pile of just ten .	while humans find it hard to conceptualize extremely large numbers , putting things to scale or in relatable terms makes these numbers easier to conceptualize . let ’ s try scaling down one part per billion using information from this lesson . if one part per million is 1 second in 11.5 days , one part per billion will be one second in how many years ? show your thinking !	while humans find it hard to conceptualize extremely large numbers , putting things to scale or in relatable terms makes these numbers easier to conceptualize . let ’ s try scaling down one part per billion using information from this lesson . if one part per million is 1 second in 11.5 days , one part per billion will be one second in how many years ? show your thinking !
thallium , because it is heavier , has two different so-called oxidation states . it can react with one atom of chlorine per thallium , or say three , and the different chemistry between thallium-one and thallium-three . thallium salts are very poisonous , and there was quite a notorious case some years ago when a technician at some company , who turned out to be mad , was discovered to have been poisoning many of his colleagues with thallium and so , but it is not a widely used element , apart from a few materials that are used .	unlike the other elements in its family , thallium can exist in two oxidation states . one of them is +3 . what is the other ?	unlike the other elements in its family , thallium can exist in two oxidation states . one of them is +3 . what is the other ?
thallium , because it is heavier , has two different so-called oxidation states . it can react with one atom of chlorine per thallium , or say three , and the different chemistry between thallium-one and thallium-three . thallium salts are very poisonous , and there was quite a notorious case some years ago when a technician at some company , who turned out to be mad , was discovered to have been poisoning many of his colleagues with thallium and so , but it is not a widely used element , apart from a few materials that are used .	what is the product of the reaction between thallium and steam ?	what is the product of the reaction between thallium and steam ?
thallium , because it is heavier , has two different so-called oxidation states . it can react with one atom of chlorine per thallium , or say three , and the different chemistry between thallium-one and thallium-three . thallium salts are very poisonous , and there was quite a notorious case some years ago when a technician at some company , who turned out to be mad , was discovered to have been poisoning many of his colleagues with thallium and so , but it is not a widely used element , apart from a few materials that are used .	only one of these sentences comparing thallium and gold is correct . which one is it ?	only one of these sentences comparing thallium and gold is correct . which one is it ?
we can see the stars and the planets but we ca n't see what holds them apart , or what draws them together . with matter as with people , we see only the skin of things , we ca n't see into the engine room , we ca n't see what makes people tick , at least not without difficulty , and the closer we look at anything , the more it disappears . in fact , if you look really closely at stuff , if you look at the basic substructure of matter , there is n't anything there .	lloyd says that we can only see the skin of things . we ca n't see into the engine room . he suggests that the closer we look at anything , the more :	lloyd says that we can only see the skin of things . we ca n't see into the engine room . he suggests that the closer we look at anything , the more :
if photoreceptors in the zebrafish retina are removed or killed by toxins , they just regenerate and rewire themselves to the brain to restore sight . scientists have been investigating this superpower because zebrafish retina are also structured very much like human retina . scientists can even mimic the effects of disorders like usher syndrome or retinitis pigmentosa on the zebrafish eye .	describe the process by which zebrafish regenerates its retina after damage . compare and contrast what we know and what we do n't know about this phenomenon .	describe the process by which zebrafish regenerates its retina after damage . compare and contrast what we know and what we do n't know about this phenomenon .
it used to be used in the uk for making hats . i am not quite sure what they did with mercury to make hats , but this is where the expression , “ mad as a hatter ” came from , because the people making hats breathed in mercury vapour and this caused them to show signs of madness . so here we can slosh it around a little bit but we have got to be very careful that we don ’ t slosh it too much because it is extremely dense and heavy and it is very , very easy to go through the middle or the bottom of the glass bottle itself .	what is the chemical reason for the mad hatter ’ s behavior in `` alice in wonderland , '' which explains the phrase `` mad as a hatter ? ''	what is the chemical reason for the mad hatter ’ s behavior in `` alice in wonderland , '' which explains the phrase `` mad as a hatter ? ''
the resulting sound resonates in the sacs like a choir singing in a cathedral making songs loud enough to propagate up to thousands of kilometers away . whales do n't have to exhale to sing . instead , the air is recycled back into the lungs , creating sound once more .	how long can whales sing for ?	how long can whales sing for ?
l. frank baum had published the book in 1900 at the height of the gilded age , and the analogy did n't seem out of the question . no one else had seen these connections , but that did n't deter littlefield . he taught his class about the gilded age using the book , and soon he and his students were finding more connections .	how else might the book be interpreted ?	how else might the book be interpreted ?
by this time the whigs had all but ceased to exist , irreparably split between their northern and southern factions . in the same year , the new republican party was founded by the anti-slavery elements from both existing parties . although lincoln still ran for senate as a whig in 1854 , he was an early supporter of the new party , and helped to recruit others to its cause .	the new republican party ________ .	the new republican party ________ .
like thulium it is very expensive so we save it for special occasions . when we know that something will absolutely work for sure then we will try it with lutetium .	why did stephen say that they only use lutetium in the lab when they are really sure that the reaction is going to work ?	why did stephen say that they only use lutetium in the lab when they are really sure that the reaction is going to work ?
most importantly , everyone must be safely across before the zombies arrive . otherwise , the first zombie could step on the bridge while people are still on it . finally , there are no tricks to use here .	which pair should go together first ?	which pair should go together first ?
the answer may seem surprisingly low . in a group of 23 people , there 's a 50.73 % chance that two people will share the same birthday . but with 365 days in a year , how 's it possible that you need such a small group to get even odds of a shared birthday ?	if you adhere to the requirements of the birthday problem ( no twins , no leap year , equal chance of any day of the year being a birthday ) , how many people do you need in a group so that there is a greater-than-average chance that at least two of them share the same birthday ?	if you adhere to the requirements of the birthday problem ( no twins , no leap year , equal chance of any day of the year being a birthday ) , how many people do you need in a group so that there is a greater-than-average chance that at least two of them share the same birthday ?
poets , like craftsman , still work with the raw materials of the world to forge new understandings and comment on what it is to be human in a way only humans can . dartmouth researchers tested this idea by asking robots to pen poetry . a panel of judges sorted through stacks of sonnets to see if they could distinguish those made by man and machine .	what does the dartmouth study mentioned in the video suggest about the nature of poetry ? were you surprised by the results of the study ?	what does the dartmouth study mentioned in the video suggest about the nature of poetry ? were you surprised by the results of the study ?
many superstitions common today in countries from russia to ireland are thought to be remnants of the pagan religions that christianity replaced . but not all superstitions are religious . some are just based on unfortunate coincidences and associations .	can positive ( lucky ) superstitions be harmful ? what about negative ( unlucky ) superstitions ?	can positive ( lucky ) superstitions be harmful ? what about negative ( unlucky ) superstitions ?
many superstitions common today in countries from russia to ireland are thought to be remnants of the pagan religions that christianity replaced . but not all superstitions are religious . some are just based on unfortunate coincidences and associations .	which of the following superstitions was once good advice ?	which of the following superstitions was once good advice ?
let 's start with the most familiar , placental mammals . this group includes humans , cats , dogs , giraffes , and even the blue whale , the biggest animal on earth . its placenta , a solid disk of blood-rich tissue , attaches to the wall of the uterus to support the developing embryo . the placenta is what keeps the calf alive during pregnancy .	what do you call the solid disc of blood rich tissue that is used to feed and oxygenate the embryo inside of animals such as humans , whales , dogs and cats ?	what do you call the solid disc of blood rich tissue that is used to feed and oxygenate the embryo inside of animals such as humans , whales , dogs and cats ?
meanwhile , new england was blanketed by a strange fog that would not disperse as the ground remained frozen well into june . in what came to be known as `` the year without a summer , '' some thought the apocalypse had begun . a mood captured in lord byron 's poem `` darkness '' : `` i had a dream which was not all a dream .	which of the following is not thought to have been influenced by a supervolcanic eruption ?	which of the following is not thought to have been influenced by a supervolcanic eruption ?
now and then i think of what i learned in high school like ap bio and british literature is that igneous or metamorphic ? i do n't need to write a nine bic and i 'll admit i do n't know shit about millard fillmore why did i have to learn this stuff ? it is never common -- had they never used it for nothing ?	personal question : malcolm gladwell talks about how it takes many hours of practice to learn proficiency and become an expert in anything . in his book , outliers , he quotes neurologist daniel levitin as saying `` the emerging picture from such studies is that 10,000 hours of practice is required to achieve the level of mastery associated with being a world-class expert—in anything. ” if expertise is based on the time we 've practiced something , what have you spent considerable time practicing ? what else do you want to develop expertise in ? what do you need in order to start ?	personal question : malcolm gladwell talks about how it takes many hours of practice to learn proficiency and become an expert in anything . in his book , outliers , he quotes neurologist daniel levitin as saying `` the emerging picture from such studies is that 10,000 hours of practice is required to achieve the level of mastery associated with being a world-class expert—in anything. ” if expertise is based on the time we 've practiced something , what have you spent considerable time practicing ? what else do you want to develop expertise in ? what do you need in order to start ?
the matchmaker makes it easier for a couple to get together , by coordinating the match . our matchmaker is like a catalyst . chemical catalysts function by lowering the activation energy -- in other words , by lowering the energy required to start a reaction .	in this analogy , hiring a matchmaker is analogous to :	in this analogy , hiring a matchmaker is analogous to :
archaeologists use these like a timeline to map a harbor 's peaks and declines , and to get clues about the historic art of shipbuiding . at roskilde in denmark , for example , five purposefully sunken vessels reveal how vikings crafted their fearsome long ships 1,000 years ago . when we descend a bit further , we reach the zone where the deepest human structures lie , like ancient harbor walls and quays .	the viking ships at roskilde , denmark , tell us about the event : an invasion that the vikings sank the ships to barricade a channel . besides events , what can these ships tell us ?	the viking ships at roskilde , denmark , tell us about the event : an invasion that the vikings sank the ships to barricade a channel . besides events , what can these ships tell us ?
so , down you go , riding along the concentration gradient towards more comfortable conditions . for salt ions , however , their lower concentration at the surface , acts like an advertisement to the clamoring masses of salt molecules below who begin their assent . in both temperate and polar regions , this passive motion along a concentration gradient , can get a current going . and that is the starting point of the global conveyor called thermohaline circulation .	in temperature regions , the concentration of salt ions is highest :	in temperature regions , the concentration of salt ions is highest :
so , down you go , riding along the concentration gradient towards more comfortable conditions . for salt ions , however , their lower concentration at the surface , acts like an advertisement to the clamoring masses of salt molecules below who begin their assent . in both temperate and polar regions , this passive motion along a concentration gradient , can get a current going . and that is the starting point of the global conveyor called thermohaline circulation .	in polar regions , the concentration of h2o molecules is highest :	in polar regions , the concentration of h2o molecules is highest :
they say that if walls could talk , each building would have a story to tell , but few would tell so many fascinating stories in so many different voices as the hagia sophia , or holy wisdom . perched at the crossroads of continents and cultures , it has seen massive changes from the name of the city where it stands , to its own structure and purpose .	many parts of the hagia sophia were reconstituted or recycled from other buildings that collapsed or were destroyed . what other buildings utilized this method of construction , and what are the costs and benefits of creating new structures from old ones ?	many parts of the hagia sophia were reconstituted or recycled from other buildings that collapsed or were destroyed . what other buildings utilized this method of construction , and what are the costs and benefits of creating new structures from old ones ?
they say that if walls could talk , each building would have a story to tell , but few would tell so many fascinating stories in so many different voices as the hagia sophia , or holy wisdom . perched at the crossroads of continents and cultures , it has seen massive changes from the name of the city where it stands , to its own structure and purpose .	artifacts are objects from the past that inform us about the way that people lived . choose any artifact from the hagia sophia and retrace its life from the time it was created to the to the time it was discovered . use the artifact to trace the social history of the people who used it , admired it and eventually recovered or restored it . which life would the artifact prefer , their past life or present one ?	artifacts are objects from the past that inform us about the way that people lived . choose any artifact from the hagia sophia and retrace its life from the time it was created to the to the time it was discovered . use the artifact to trace the social history of the people who used it , admired it and eventually recovered or restored it . which life would the artifact prefer , their past life or present one ?
that 's great . but it would be easier to see what 's going on if we could cut out all the hundreds of panels and stack them up like a flip book . right , now let 's flip through the book so that we can see one panel after another getting through 24 in every second .	we showed the worldlines of objects moving at a constant speed . what would a worldline look like for someone who starts out sitting down , walks across the room , then sits down again ? what would a worldline look like for a smoothly accelerating car ? try thinking of other objects that you could draw worldlines for , and draw them . get your classmates to guess what it is you ’ ve drawn .	we showed the worldlines of objects moving at a constant speed . what would a worldline look like for someone who starts out sitting down , walks across the room , then sits down again ? what would a worldline look like for a smoothly accelerating car ? try thinking of other objects that you could draw worldlines for , and draw them . get your classmates to guess what it is you ’ ve drawn .
so what meaning can be assigned to those words that will allow everyone else to deduce their hat colors ? it ca n't be the total number of black or white hats . there are more than two possible values , but what does have two possible values is that number 's parity , that is whether it 's odd or even . so the solution is to agree that whoever goes first will , for example , say `` black '' if he sees an odd number of black hats and `` white '' if he sees an even number of black hats .	what does a number 's parity refer to ?	what does a number 's parity refer to ?
technetium is the first element in the periodic table which is naturally radioactive , so it is the lightest radioactive element and so for a long time very little was known about it . now people are beginning to study it in suitably strong surroundings of ů to contain the radioactivity and they have discovered that the chemistry of technetium is in many ways quite similar to that of rhenium or manganese .	technetium is the lightest radioactive element in the periodic table . how do we use this property ?	technetium is the lightest radioactive element in the periodic table . how do we use this property ?
technetium is the first element in the periodic table which is naturally radioactive , so it is the lightest radioactive element and so for a long time very little was known about it . now people are beginning to study it in suitably strong surroundings of ů to contain the radioactivity and they have discovered that the chemistry of technetium is in many ways quite similar to that of rhenium or manganese .	what is the radioactive isotope of technetium used in medicine as a diagnosis agent ?	what is the radioactive isotope of technetium used in medicine as a diagnosis agent ?
technetium is the first element in the periodic table which is naturally radioactive , so it is the lightest radioactive element and so for a long time very little was known about it . now people are beginning to study it in suitably strong surroundings of ů to contain the radioactivity and they have discovered that the chemistry of technetium is in many ways quite similar to that of rhenium or manganese .	mendeleev predicted the existence of an element with an atomic mass of 100. what was the name he gave to the undiscovered element that became technetium ?	mendeleev predicted the existence of an element with an atomic mass of 100. what was the name he gave to the undiscovered element that became technetium ?
and the kid 's parents might have done some of these things when they were young , but not many parents have written apps . ( laughter ) where do you go to find out how to make an app ? well , this is how i approached it .	how did thomas go about learning to make an app ?	how did thomas go about learning to make an app ?
i was going through a hard time as well . as it is in my culture , once you reach puberty stage , you are supposed to go to initiation camps . in these initiation camps , you are taught how to sexually please a man .	what are women who reach puberty stage in malawi traditionally taught at “ orientation camps ” ?	what are women who reach puberty stage in malawi traditionally taught at “ orientation camps ” ?
major contributions to germ theory also came from prolific scientist louis pasteur , whose study of microorganisms led to the development of the first vaccines . by challenging assumptions with data-driven research , these scientists discredited an age-old theory and sparked a revolution that was incredibly beneficial to public health . but all of this raises the question , what are the widely held scientific beliefs of today that our descendants will find ridiculous ? and as any scientist would tell you , a question is an excellent place to start .	why can it be difficult to change a widely held public opinion even when there is evidence to the contrary ?	why can it be difficult to change a widely held public opinion even when there is evidence to the contrary ?
if an illness is evidenced by three symptoms and only two are present in a patient , a medical professional must explicitly state the absence of that third symptom , signifying that the patient may not have the condition suspected . articulating the absence of a specific detail or behavior known as the pertinent negative is as critical as stating the details and behaviors that are present in order to treat the patient . and conspicuous absences are only conspicuous to eyes trained to look for them .	which of these is an example of the pertinent negative ?	which of these is an example of the pertinent negative ?
it divides frequently and is n't a threat . and , there are other frequently dividing cells in your body like skin cells , gut cells , and blood cells . so the list of unpleasant side effects of cancer treatment parallels these tissue types : hair loss , skin rashes , nausea , vomiting , fatigue , weight loss , and pain .	about how many cells are in the human body ?	about how many cells are in the human body ?
it divides frequently and is n't a threat . and , there are other frequently dividing cells in your body like skin cells , gut cells , and blood cells . so the list of unpleasant side effects of cancer treatment parallels these tissue types : hair loss , skin rashes , nausea , vomiting , fatigue , weight loss , and pain .	cancer cells are rogue clones . list and describe three mutations that allow these cells to escape the normal restrictions placed on our body ’ s cells .	cancer cells are rogue clones . list and describe three mutations that allow these cells to escape the normal restrictions placed on our body ’ s cells .
so , in a lot of ways , the world wide web is a big virtual city where we communicate with each other in web languages , with browsers acting as our translators . and just like no one owns a city , no one owns the web ; it belongs to all of us . anyone can move in and set up shop .	why does no one own the web ?	why does no one own the web ?
at first these alternative geometries seemed strange , but were soon found to be equally adept at describing the world around us . navigating our planet requires elliptical geometry while the much of the art of m.c . escher displays hyperbolic geometry . albert einstein used non-euclidean geometry as well to describe how space-time becomes warped in the presence of matter , as part of his general theory of relativity .	if you are navigating the surface of the earth , then you are using which type of geometry ?	if you are navigating the surface of the earth , then you are using which type of geometry ?
and not only has it appeared but quite excitingly , it has appeared with a bit of controversy - what should the symbol be ? the first suggestion was that it should be called , the symbol should be cp , capital c with little p and that has got really quite an argument inorganic chemists who use organic groups in their compounds got quite excited because cp is the symbol that is used for cyclopentadienyl ion which binds to all sorts of different metals and then it was discovered or realised that , many , many years ago , cp was used as an alternative symbol for element number 71 , lutetium , which in some countries we called cassiopeium . and i ’ ve looked in lots and lots of books that i have got at home and i can ’ t find one of them that uses this name , but the reason why it is important is because now more and more old papers , old books are being digitised on the internet , if you start searching for the symbol cp it will start throwing up old papers and cause confusion .	why was cn finally accepted instead of cp for the copernicium symbol ? what does cp mean in organic chemistry ?	why was cn finally accepted instead of cp for the copernicium symbol ? what does cp mean in organic chemistry ?
and not only has it appeared but quite excitingly , it has appeared with a bit of controversy - what should the symbol be ? the first suggestion was that it should be called , the symbol should be cp , capital c with little p and that has got really quite an argument inorganic chemists who use organic groups in their compounds got quite excited because cp is the symbol that is used for cyclopentadienyl ion which binds to all sorts of different metals and then it was discovered or realised that , many , many years ago , cp was used as an alternative symbol for element number 71 , lutetium , which in some countries we called cassiopeium . and i ’ ve looked in lots and lots of books that i have got at home and i can ’ t find one of them that uses this name , but the reason why it is important is because now more and more old papers , old books are being digitised on the internet , if you start searching for the symbol cp it will start throwing up old papers and cause confusion .	as the professor explained , cp was used as an alternative symbol for the element lutetium . what was the alternate name for this element used in some countries before 1950 ?	as the professor explained , cp was used as an alternative symbol for the element lutetium . what was the alternate name for this element used in some countries before 1950 ?
so , what was the culprit ? the culprit was time perception . although we can make shockingly precise time estimates , when we experience something new , unusual , or dynamic , like hopping on one foot while taking instructions from a voice on the computer , or , say , jumping out of an airplane , we often miscalculate how much time has passed .	what kinds of activities tend to slow a person ’ s perception of time ?	what kinds of activities tend to slow a person ’ s perception of time ?
so , what was the culprit ? the culprit was time perception . although we can make shockingly precise time estimates , when we experience something new , unusual , or dynamic , like hopping on one foot while taking instructions from a voice on the computer , or , say , jumping out of an airplane , we often miscalculate how much time has passed .	scientists believe time perception is important because :	scientists believe time perception is important because :
so , what was the culprit ? the culprit was time perception . although we can make shockingly precise time estimates , when we experience something new , unusual , or dynamic , like hopping on one foot while taking instructions from a voice on the computer , or , say , jumping out of an airplane , we often miscalculate how much time has passed .	our perception of time is dependent upon our __________ path between two points in time .	our perception of time is dependent upon our __________ path between two points in time .
so , what was the culprit ? the culprit was time perception . although we can make shockingly precise time estimates , when we experience something new , unusual , or dynamic , like hopping on one foot while taking instructions from a voice on the computer , or , say , jumping out of an airplane , we often miscalculate how much time has passed .	some scientists believe time perception accounts for the difference between the time you believe has elapsed and ____________ .	some scientists believe time perception accounts for the difference between the time you believe has elapsed and ____________ .
so , what was the culprit ? the culprit was time perception . although we can make shockingly precise time estimates , when we experience something new , unusual , or dynamic , like hopping on one foot while taking instructions from a voice on the computer , or , say , jumping out of an airplane , we often miscalculate how much time has passed .	describe an activity you ’ ve never experienced before that may alter your perception of time .	describe an activity you ’ ve never experienced before that may alter your perception of time .
after uttering this simple word , the common teacher is met with a mass of groans , moans , devastated looks , and the occasional chair tossed in his or her direction . but shakespearean works are not boring , confusing , long and painful plays written more than 400 years ago . they 're adventures relating to the extremities of human nature : love , hate , jealousy , zealous ambition , fear , mistrust , deception , and murder .	shakespeare ’ s plays were written in the ________ .	shakespeare ’ s plays were written in the ________ .
after uttering this simple word , the common teacher is met with a mass of groans , moans , devastated looks , and the occasional chair tossed in his or her direction . but shakespearean works are not boring , confusing , long and painful plays written more than 400 years ago . they 're adventures relating to the extremities of human nature : love , hate , jealousy , zealous ambition , fear , mistrust , deception , and murder .	what are the common student responses to shakespearean plays in the 21st century ?	what are the common student responses to shakespearean plays in the 21st century ?
and to this day i can not remember the capital of bulgaria , and the two bodies of water i know the most about sat below his shoulders . and now , i 'm the one looking like i 've got the atlantic and pacific in headlocks . the one being asked , `` how was the dunk tank ? ''	what did mr. lamb mean when he said he had the atlantic and pacific in headlocks ?	what did mr. lamb mean when he said he had the atlantic and pacific in headlocks ?
when it was finished , minos then imprisoned daedalus and his only son icarus within the top of the tallest tower on the island where they were to remain for the rest of their lives . but daedalus was still a genius inventor . while observing the birds that circled his prison , the means for escape became clear .	what are some character traits that daedalus possessed ? describe how they affected his life .	what are some character traits that daedalus possessed ? describe how they affected his life .
because of this hazard , they spend most of their time living in or near fresh water . that is , until a breakthrough in evolution changes everything : the amniotic egg . the amniotic egg is shelled , waterproof , and can be laid on dry land .	the amniotic egg evolved __________ years ago .	the amniotic egg evolved __________ years ago .
because of this hazard , they spend most of their time living in or near fresh water . that is , until a breakthrough in evolution changes everything : the amniotic egg . the amniotic egg is shelled , waterproof , and can be laid on dry land .	why is the amniotic egg considered a key evolutionary innovation ?	why is the amniotic egg considered a key evolutionary innovation ?
because of this hazard , they spend most of their time living in or near fresh water . that is , until a breakthrough in evolution changes everything : the amniotic egg . the amniotic egg is shelled , waterproof , and can be laid on dry land .	the allantois of the amniotic egg functions in :	the allantois of the amniotic egg functions in :
capone and his associates had hidden it through investments in various businesses whose ultimate ownership could n't be proven , like cash-only laundromats . in fact , those laundromats are part of the reason for the name of this activity , money laundering . money laundering came to be the term for any process that cleans illegally obtained funds of their dirty criminal origins , allowing them to be used within the legal economy . but capone was n't the first to launder money .	___________ is the third stage of the money laundering process .	___________ is the third stage of the money laundering process .
and the vagina of a featherwing beetle resembles something you 'd find in a dr. seuss book . throughout the animal kingdom , genitalia are very complex things , much more complicated than seems necessary for what they 're meant to do . that 's because genitalia do more than just deposit and receive sperm .	genitalia are much more complex that seems necessary . the penis of a chicken flea , for example , is a surprisingly intricate assemblage of springs and coils . why do genitalia have such complex shapes ?	genitalia are much more complex that seems necessary . the penis of a chicken flea , for example , is a surprisingly intricate assemblage of springs and coils . why do genitalia have such complex shapes ?
it 's also the quality and effectiveness of that practice . effective practice is consistent , intensely focused , and targets content or weaknesses that lie at the edge of one 's current abilities . so if effective practice is the key , how can we get the most out of our practice time ?	if effective practice is consistent , intensely focused , and targets content or weakness that lie at the edge of one ’ s current abilities . what are the most productive ways to make your limited practice time effective ?	if effective practice is consistent , intensely focused , and targets content or weakness that lie at the edge of one ’ s current abilities . what are the most productive ways to make your limited practice time effective ?
before we get into how to save the frogs , let 's start by taking a look at why they 're disappearing and why it 's important to keep them around . habitat destruction is the number one problem for frog populations around the world . there are seven billion humans on the planet , and we compete with frogs for habitat .	what are some of the primary environmental problems in your part of the world . are there any that are likely to affect frogs ? can you think of ways to educate your fellow citizens about the problem and possibly even come up with solutions ?	what are some of the primary environmental problems in your part of the world . are there any that are likely to affect frogs ? can you think of ways to educate your fellow citizens about the problem and possibly even come up with solutions ?
and that got me thinking about a website that i had learned about a few months prior called change.org . change.org is an online petition-sharing platform , where you can create a petition and share it across all these social media networks , through facebook , through twitter , through youtube , through reddit , through tumblr , through whatever you can think of . and so , i created a petition , along with a youtube video that i added to the petition , basically asking hasbro to change the way that they marketed it , in featuring boys in the commercials and on the boxes , and most of all creating them in less gender-specific colors .	you have to be famous or be a celebrity to start and successfully win with an online petition .	you have to be famous or be a celebrity to start and successfully win with an online petition .
and that got me thinking about a website that i had learned about a few months prior called change.org . change.org is an online petition-sharing platform , where you can create a petition and share it across all these social media networks , through facebook , through twitter , through youtube , through reddit , through tumblr , through whatever you can think of . and so , i created a petition , along with a youtube video that i added to the petition , basically asking hasbro to change the way that they marketed it , in featuring boys in the commercials and on the boxes , and most of all creating them in less gender-specific colors .	what outlets are available to you to start your petition for change ( i.e.social networks , online petition forums ) ?	what outlets are available to you to start your petition for change ( i.e.social networks , online petition forums ) ?
this seems absurd , which was schrödinger 's point . he found quantum physics so philosophically disturbing , that he abandoned the theory he had helped make and turned to writing about biology . as absurd as it may seem , though , schrödinger 's cat is very real .	quantum physics is important for computer technology because :	quantum physics is important for computer technology because :
at other times , we need a common person who becomes great so that they can inspire us all to be better . so do we need heroes ? absolutely !	according to the end of the video , what is the reason that we need heroes ?	according to the end of the video , what is the reason that we need heroes ?
as with the other nobel prizes , the peace prize ca n't be awarded posthumously . the secret selection process takes almost a year , and is carried out by the five appointed members of the norwegian nobel committee who are forbidden from having any official political function in norway . starting with a large pool of nominations , exceeding 300 in recent years , they access each candidate 's work and create a short list .	who is responsible for the selection process ?	who is responsible for the selection process ?
as with the other nobel prizes , the peace prize ca n't be awarded posthumously . the secret selection process takes almost a year , and is carried out by the five appointed members of the norwegian nobel committee who are forbidden from having any official political function in norway . starting with a large pool of nominations , exceeding 300 in recent years , they access each candidate 's work and create a short list .	the norwegian nobel committee consists of five norwegian members . discuss the pros and cons of this organization . and explain which changes you would make and why .	the norwegian nobel committee consists of five norwegian members . discuss the pros and cons of this organization . and explain which changes you would make and why .
the sweaty teacher . adjective , sweaty purposefully coming before noun , teacher , as if to say , `` this is mr. lamb . do not define him by the profession he devotes his life to .	what does everyone call mr. lamb ?	what does everyone call mr. lamb ?
empty spaces , or vacuums , are incredibly useful . inside our homes , most vacuum cleaners work by using a fan to create a low-pressure relatively empty area that sucks matter in to fill the void . but that 's far from empty .	vacuum cleaners work by :	vacuum cleaners work by :
roman officials could only be installed in office when the avian omens were auspicious . centuries later , the word was eventually transmuted into english as inaugurate . along the way , it lost its veneer of superstition and was admitted formally into the jargon of politics .	what happens when a word is transmuted into another language ?	what happens when a word is transmuted into another language ?
if it flaps its tail once , it can coast ahead for an incredible distance . meanwhile , sperm live in a low reynolds number world . if a sperm were to stop flapping its tail , it would n't even coast past a single atom .	say you wanted to experience what the low reynolds number world of a microbe felt like . as a swimmer , what could you do to reduce your reynolds number ?	say you wanted to experience what the low reynolds number world of a microbe felt like . as a swimmer , what could you do to reduce your reynolds number ?
if it flaps its tail once , it can coast ahead for an incredible distance . meanwhile , sperm live in a low reynolds number world . if a sperm were to stop flapping its tail , it would n't even coast past a single atom .	which of the following changes has the largest effect on the swimming behavior ( reynolds number ) of a swimmer ?	which of the following changes has the largest effect on the swimming behavior ( reynolds number ) of a swimmer ?
if it flaps its tail once , it can coast ahead for an incredible distance . meanwhile , sperm live in a low reynolds number world . if a sperm were to stop flapping its tail , it would n't even coast past a single atom .	the video creates a distinction between the `` low reynolds number world '' inhabited by microbes such as bacteria and sperm , and the `` large reynolds number '' inhabited by macroscopic creatures like humans or whales . based on what your learned in the video , why is it more difficult to swim in a low reynolds number world compared to a large reynolds number world ?	the video creates a distinction between the `` low reynolds number world '' inhabited by microbes such as bacteria and sperm , and the `` large reynolds number '' inhabited by macroscopic creatures like humans or whales . based on what your learned in the video , why is it more difficult to swim in a low reynolds number world compared to a large reynolds number world ?
as a noun , it means uncertainty or confusion . the present-day english word `` doubt '' started as a latin word , `` dubitare '' . it first moved from latin into french where it lost both its `` buh '' sound and its letter `` b '' .	doubt , the present day english word , started as what latin word ?	doubt , the present day english word , started as what latin word ?
as a noun , it means uncertainty or confusion . the present-day english word `` doubt '' started as a latin word , `` dubitare '' . it first moved from latin into french where it lost both its `` buh '' sound and its letter `` b '' .	why does the word doubt contain a silent `` b '' ?	why does the word doubt contain a silent `` b '' ?
as a noun , it means uncertainty or confusion . the present-day english word `` doubt '' started as a latin word , `` dubitare '' . it first moved from latin into french where it lost both its `` buh '' sound and its letter `` b '' .	what is the old english word that means basically the same thing as the word doubt ?	what is the old english word that means basically the same thing as the word doubt ?
optical fibers can deliver laser pulses to break up the stone . stones can also be surgically removed through an incision in the patient 's back or groin . what about just avoiding kidney stones in the first place ? for people prone to them , their doctor may recommend drinking plenty of water , which dilutes the calcium oxalate and other compounds that eventually build up into painful stones .	when do the stones cause pain ?	when do the stones cause pain ?
that 's because genitalia do more than just deposit and receive sperm . many male animals also use the penis as courtship device , like crane flies . in some south american species , males have a tiny washboard and scraper on their penis , which produces a song that reverberates throughout the female 's body when they mate . it 's thought that if female crane flies enjoy this unusual serenade , they 'll allow the male to father their offspring .	the penis of some south-american species of crane fly have an unusual feature . what is this ?	the penis of some south-american species of crane fly have an unusual feature . what is this ?
they 've traveled to outer space . telomerase , an enzyme that helps cancer cells evade destruction by repairing their dna , was discovered first in hela cells . in an interesting turn of fate , thanks to hela , we know that cervical cancer can be caused by a virus called hpv and now there 's a vaccine .	what are some of the characteristics of cancer cells like hela that help them evade death ?	what are some of the characteristics of cancer cells like hela that help them evade death ?
for example , in locker # 6 , person 1 will open it , person 2 will close it , person 3 will open it , and person 6 will close it . the numbers 1 , 2 , 3 , and 6 are the factors of 6 . so when a locker has an even number of factors it will remain closed , and when it has an odd number of factors , it will remain open . most of the lockers have an even number of factors , which makes sense because factors naturally pair up . in fact , the only lockers that have an odd number of factors are perfect squares because those have one factor that when multiplied by itself equals the number .	how many factors does the number 16 have , including 1 and itself ?	how many factors does the number 16 have , including 1 and itself ?
but the behaviorist argument can account for both accounts of love . a parent , biological or not , is constantly paired with things like food , smiles , toys , affection , games , protection , and entertainment . and a parent 's constant association with these wonderful or crucial aspects of a child 's life has a similar , albeit more complicated , effect that meat powder had on pavlov 's salivating dogs .	who is credited with identifying that neutral stimuli , like a bell , can produce reflexive responses when paired with stimuli that elicit those reflexes ?	who is credited with identifying that neutral stimuli , like a bell , can produce reflexive responses when paired with stimuli that elicit those reflexes ?
the territory of the mali empire was rich in natural resources , such as gold and salt . the world first witnessed the extent of mansa musa 's wealth in 1324 when he took his pilgrimage to mecca . not one to travel on a budget , he brought a caravan stretching as far as the eye could see .	recall what you learned about mansa musa 's pilgrimage to mecca and then use imagery to describe it in your own words .	recall what you learned about mansa musa 's pilgrimage to mecca and then use imagery to describe it in your own words .
